F	 F is the sixth letter of the English alphabet, and a nonvocal consonant. Its form and sound are from the Latin. The Latin borrowed the form from the Greek digamma /, which probably had the value of English w consonant. The form and value of Greek letter came from the Phoenician, the ultimate source being probably Egyptian. Etymologically f is most closely related to p, k, v, and b; as in E. five, Gr. pe`nte; E. wolf, L. lupus, Gr. ly`kos; E. fox, vixen ; fragile, break; fruit, brook, v. t.; E. bear, L. ferre. See Guide to Pronunciation, // 178, 179, 188, 198, 230.
F	 The name of the fourth tone of the model scale, or scale of C. F sharp (F /) is a tone intermediate between F and G.
Fa	 A syllable applied to the fourth tone of the diatonic scale in solmization.
Fa	 The tone F.
Fabaceous	 Having the nature of a bean
Fabellae	 of Fabella
Fabella	 One of the small sesamoid bones situated behind the condyles of the femur, in some mammals.
Fabian	 Of, pertaining to, or in the manner of, the Roman general, Quintus Fabius Maximus Verrucosus; cautious; dilatory; avoiding a decisive contest.
Fable	 A Feigned story or tale, intended to instruct or amuse; a fictitious narration intended to enforce some useful truth or precept; an apologue. See the Note under Apologue.
Fable	 The plot, story, or connected series of events, forming the subject of an epic or dramatic poem.
Fable	 Any story told to excite wonder
Fable	 Fiction
Fabled	 of Fable
Fabling	 of Fable
Fable	 To compose fables; hence, to write or speak fiction ; to write or utter what is not true.
Fable	 To feign; to invent; to devise, and speak of, as true or real; to tell of falsely.
Fabler	 A writer of fables
Fabliaux	 of Fabliau
Fabliau	 One of the metrical tales of the Trouveres, or early poets of the north of France.
Fabric	 The structure of anything
Fabric	 That which is fabricated
Fabric	 Framework
Fabric	 Cloth of any kind that is woven or knit from fibers, either vegetable or animal; manufactured cloth; as, silks or other fabrics.
Fabric	 The act of constructing
Fabric	 Any system or structure consisting of connected parts; as, the fabric of the universe.
Fabricked	 of Fabric
Fabricking	 of Fabric
Fabric	 To frame
Fabricant	 One who fabricates
Fabricated	 of Fabricate
Fabricating	 of Fabricate
Fabricate	 To form into a whole by uniting its parts; to frame; to construct; to build; as, to fabricate a bridge or ship.
Fabricate	 To form by art and labor; to manufacture; to produce; as, to fabricate woolens.
Fabricate	 To invent and form; to forge; to devise falsely; as, to fabricate a lie or story.
Fabrication	 The act of fabricating, framing, or constructing; construction; manufacture; as, the fabrication of a bridge, a church, or a government.
Fabrication	 That which is fabricated; a falsehood; as, the story is doubtless a fabrication.
Fabricator	 One who fabricates
Fabricatress	 A woman who fabricates.
Fabrile	 Pertaining to a workman, or to work in stone, metal, wood etc.; as, fabrile skill.
Fabulist	 One who invents or writes fables.
Fabulized	 of Fabulize
Fabulizing	 of Fabulize
Fabulize	 To invent, compose, or relate fables or fictions.
Fabulosity	 Fabulousness.
Fabulosity	 A fabulous or fictitious story.
Fabulous	 Feigned, as a story or fable; related in fable; devised; invented; not real; fictitious; as, a fabulous description; a fabulous hero.
Fabulous	 Passing belief; exceedingly great; as, a fabulous price.
Faburden	 A species of counterpoint with a drone bass.
Faburden	 A succession of chords of the sixth.
Faburden	 A monotonous refrain.
Fac	 A large ornamental letter used, esp. by the early printers, at the commencement of the chapters and other divisions of a book.
Facade	 The front of a building; esp., the principal front, having some architectural pretensions. Thus a church is said to have its facade unfinished, though the interior may be in use.
Face	 The exterior form or appearance of anything; that part which presents itself to the view; especially, the front or upper part or surface; that which particularly offers itself to the view of a spectator.
Face	 That part of a body, having several sides, which may be seen from one point, or which is presented toward a certain direction; one of the bounding planes of a solid; as, a cube has six faces.
Face	 The principal dressed surface of a plate, disk, or pulley; the principal flat surface of a part or object.
Face	 That part of the acting surface of a cog in a cog wheel, which projects beyond the pitch line.
Face	 The width of a pulley, or the length of a cog from end to end; as, a pulley or cog wheel of ten inches face.
Face	 The upper surface, or the character upon the surface, of a type, plate, etc.
Face	 The style or cut of a type or font of type.
Face	 Outside appearance; surface show; look; external aspect, whether natural, assumed, or acquired.
Face	 That part of the head, esp. of man, in which the eyes, cheeks, nose, and mouth are situated; visage; countenance.
Face	 Cast of features
Face	 Ten degrees in extent of a sign of the zodiac.
Face	 Maintenance of the countenance free from abashment or confusion
Face	 Presence; sight; front; as in the phrases, before the face of, in the immediate presence of; in the face of, before, in, or against the front of; as, to fly in the face of danger; to the face of, directly to; from the face of, from the presence of.
Face	 Mode of regard, whether favorable or unfavorable; favor or anger; mostly in Scriptural phrases.
Face	 The end or wall of the tunnel, drift, or excavation, at which work is progressing or was last done.
Face	 The exact amount expressed on a bill, note, bond, or other mercantile paper, without any addition for interest or reduction for discount.
Faced	 of Face
Facing	 of Face
Face	 To meet in front; to oppose with firmness; to resist, or to meet for the purpose of stopping or opposing; to confront; to encounter; as, to face an enemy in the field of battle.
Face	 To Confront impudently
Face	 To stand opposite to; to stand with the face or front toward; to front upon; as, the apartments of the general faced the park.
Face	 To cover in front, for ornament, protection, etc.; to put a facing upon; as, a building faced with marble.
Face	 To line near the edge, esp. with a different material; as, to face the front of a coat, or the bottom of a dress.
Face	 To cover with better, or better appearing, material than the mass consists of, for purpose of deception, as the surface of a box of tea, a barrel of sugar, etc.
Face	 To make the surface of (anything) flat or smooth; to dress the face of (a stone, a casting, etc.); esp., in turning, to shape or smooth the flat surface of, as distinguished from the cylindrical surface.
Face	 To cause to turn or present a face or front, as in a particular direction.
Face	 To carry a false appearance
Face	 To turn the face; as, to face to the right or left.
Face	 To present a face or front.
Faced	 Having (such) a face, or (so many) faces; as, smooth-faced, two-faced.
Faser	 One who faces
Faser	 A blow in the face, as in boxing; hence, any severe or stunning check or defeat, as in controversy.
Facet	 A little face; a small, plane surface; as, the facets of a diamond.
Facet	 A smooth circumscribed surface; as, the articular facet of a bone.
Facet	 The narrow plane surface between flutings of a column.
Facet	 One of the numerous small eyes which make up the compound eyes of insects and crustaceans.
Faceted	 of Facet
Faceting	 of Facet
Facet	 To cut facets or small faces upon; as, to facet a diamond.
Facete	 Facetious
Faceted	 Having facets.
Facetiae	 Witty or humorous writings or saying
Facetious	 Given to wit and good humor; merry; sportive; jocular; as, a facetious companion.
Facetious	 Characterized by wit and pleasantry; exciting laughter; as, a facetious story or reply.
Facette	 See Facet, n.
Facework	 The material of the outside or front side, as of a wall or building; facing.
Facia	 See Fascia.
Facial	 Of or pertaining to the face; as, the facial artery, vein, or nerve.
Faciend	 The multiplicand. See Facient, 2.
Facient	 One who does anything, good or bad; a doer; an agent.
Facient	 One of the variables of a quantic as distinguished from a coefficient.
Facient	 The multiplier.
Facies	 The anterior part of the head
Facies	 The general aspect or habit of a species, or group of species, esp. with reference to its adaptation to its environment.
Facies	 The face of a bird, or the front of the head, excluding the bill.
Facile	 Easy to be done or performed: not difficult
Facile	 Easy to be surmounted or removed
Facile	 Easy of access or converse; mild; courteous; not haughty, austere, or distant; affable; complaisant.
Facile	 Easily persuaded to good or bad
Facile	 Ready; quick; expert; as, he is facile in expedients; he wields a facile pen.
Facilitated	 of Facilitate
Facilitating	 of Facilitate
Facilitate	 To make easy or less difficult; to free from difficulty or impediment; to lessen the labor of; as, to facilitate the execution of a task.
Facilitation	 The act of facilitating or making easy.
Facilities	 of Facility
Facility	 The quality of being easily performed; freedom from difficulty; ease; as, the facility of an operation.
Facility	 Ease in performance; readiness proceeding from skill or use; dexterity; as, practice gives a wonderful facility in executing works of art.
Facility	 Easiness to be persuaded
Facility	 Easiness of access
Facility	 That which promotes the ease of any action or course of conduct; advantage; aid; assistance; -- usually in the plural; as, special facilities for study.
Facing	 A covering in front, for ornament or other purpose; an exterior covering or sheathing; as, the facing of an earthen slope, sea wall, etc. , to strengthen it or to protect or adorn the exposed surface.
Facing	 A lining placed near the edge of a garment for ornament or protection.
Facing	 The finishing of any face of a wall with material different from that of which it is chiefly composed, or the coating or material so used.
Facing	 A powdered substance, as charcoal, bituminous coal, ect., applied to the face of a mold, or mixed with the sand that forms it, to give a fine smooth surface to the casting.
Facing	 The collar and cuffs of a military coat
Facing	 The movement of soldiers by turning on their heels to the right, left, or about; -- chiefly in the pl.
Facingly	 In a facing manner or position.
Facinorous	 Atrociously wicked.
Facound	 Speech
Facsimiles	 of Facsimile
Facsimile	 A copy of anything made, either so as to be deceptive or so as to give every part and detail of the original; an exact copy or likeness.
Facsimile	 To make a facsimile of.
Fact	 A doing, making, or preparing.
Fact	 An effect produced or achieved
Fact	 Reality; actuality; truth; as, he, in fact, excelled all the rest; the fact is, he was beaten.
Fact	 The assertion or statement of a thing done or existing; sometimes, even when false, improperly put, by a transfer of meaning, for the thing done, or supposed to be done; a thing supposed or asserted to be done; as, history abounds with false facts.
Faction	 One of the divisions or parties of charioteers (distinguished by their colors) in the games of the circus.
Faction	 A party, in political society, combined or acting in union, in opposition to the government, or state; -- usually applied to a minority, but it may be applied to a majority; a combination or clique of partisans of any kind, acting for their own interests, especially if greedy, clamorous, and reckless of the common good.
Faction	 Tumult
Factionary	 Belonging to a faction
Factioner	 One of a faction.
Factionist	 One who promotes faction.
Factious	 Given to faction; addicted to form parties and raise dissensions, in opposition to government or the common good; turbulent; seditious; prone to clamor against public measures or men; -- said of persons.
Factious	 Pertaining to faction; proceeding from faction; indicating, or characterized by, faction; -- said of acts or expressions; as, factious quarrels.
Factitious	 Made by art, in distinction from what is produced by nature; artificial; sham; formed by, or adapted to, an artificial or conventional, in distinction from a natural, standard or rule; not natural; as, factitious cinnabar or jewels; a factitious taste.
Factitive	 Causing
Factitive	 Pertaining to that relation which is proper when the act, as of a transitive verb, is not merely received by an object, but produces some change in the object, as when we say, He made the water wine.
Factive	 Making
Facto	 In fact
Factor	 One who transacts business for another; an agent; a substitute; especially, a mercantile agent who buys and sells goods and transacts business for others in commission; a commission merchant or consignee. He may be a home factor or a foreign factor. He may buy and sell in his own name, and he is intrusted with the possession and control of the goods; and in these respects he differs from a broker.
Factor	 A steward or bailiff of an estate.
Factor	 One of the elements or quantities which, when multiplied together, from a product.
Factor	 One of the elements, circumstances, or influences which contribute to produce a result; a constituent.
Factored	 of Factor
Factoring	 of Factor
Factor	 To resolve (a quantity) into its factors.
Factorage	 The allowance given to a factor, as a compensation for his services; -- called also a commission.
Factoress	 A factor who is a woman.
Factorial	 Of or pertaining to a factory.
Factorial	 Related to factorials.
Factorial	 A name given to the factors of a continued product when the former are derivable from one and the same function F(x) by successively imparting a constant increment or decrement h to the independent variable. Thus the product F(x).F(x + h).F(x + 2h) . . . F[x + (n-1)h] is called a factorial term, and its several factors take the name of factorials.
Factorial	 The product of the consecutive numbers from unity up to any given number.
Factoring	 The act of resolving into factors.
Factorized	 of Factorize
Factorizing	 of Factorize
Factorize	 To give warning to; -- said of a person in whose hands the effects of another are attached, the warning being to the effect that he shall not pay the money or deliver the property of the defendant in his hands to him, but appear and answer the suit of the plaintiff.
Factorize	 To attach (the effects of a debtor) in the hands of a third person 
Factorship	 The business of a factor.
Factories	 of Factory
Factory	 A house or place where factors, or commercial agents, reside, to transact business for their employers.
Factory	 The body of factors in any place; as, a chaplain to a British factory.
Factory	 A building, or collection of buildings, appropriated to the manufacture of goods; the place where workmen are employed in fabricating goods, wares, or utensils; a manufactory; as, a cotton factory.
Factotums	 of Factotum
Factotum	 A person employed to do all kinds of work or business.
Factual	 Relating to, or containing, facts.
Facta	 of Factum
Factum	 A man's own act and deed
Factum	 Anything stated and made certain.
Factum	 The due execution of a will, including everything necessary to its validity.
Factum	 The product. See Facient, 2.
Facture	 The act or manner of making or doing anything; -- now used of a literary, musical, or pictorial production.
Facture	 An invoice or bill of parcels.
Faculae	 Groups of small shining spots on the surface of the sun which are brighter than the other parts of the photosphere. They are generally seen in the neighborhood of the dark spots, and are supposed to be elevated portions of the photosphere.
Facular	 Of or pertaining to the faculae.
Faculties	 of Faculty
Faculty	 Ability to act or perform, whether inborn or cultivated; capacity for any natural function; especially, an original mental power or capacity for any of the well-known classes of mental activity; psychical or soul capacity; capacity for any of the leading kinds of soul activity, as knowledge, feeling, volition; intellectual endowment or gift; power; as, faculties of the mind or the soul.
Faculty	 Special mental endowment
Faculty	 Power
Faculty	 Privilege or permission, granted by favor or indulgence, to do a particular thing; authority; license; dispensation.
Faculty	 A body of a men to whom any specific right or privilege is granted; formerly, the graduates in any of the four departments of a university or college (Philosophy, Law, Medicine, or Theology), to whom was granted the right of teaching (profitendi or docendi) in the department in which they had studied; at present, the members of a profession itself; as, the medical faculty; the legal faculty, ect.
Faculty	 The body of person to whom are intrusted the government and instruction of a college or university, or of one of its departments; the president, professors, and tutors in a college.
Facund	 Eloquent.
Facundious	 Eloquement
Facundity	 Eloquence
Fad	 A hobby 
Faddle	 To trifle
Faddle	 To fondle
Fade	 Weak
Faded	 of Fade
Fading	 of Fade
Fade	 To become fade; to grow weak; to lose strength; to decay; to perish gradually; to wither, as a plant.
Fade	 To lose freshness, color, or brightness; to become faint in hue or tint; hence, to be wanting in color.
Fade	 To sink away
Fade	 To cause to wither
Faded	 That has lost freshness, color, or brightness; grown dim.
Fadedly	 In a faded manner.
Fadeless	 Not liable to fade
Fader	 Father.
Fadge	 To fit
Fadge	 A small flat loaf or thick cake; also, a fagot.
Fading	 Losing freshness, color, brightness, or vigor.
Fading	 Loss of color, freshness, or vigor.
Fading	 An Irish dance; also, the burden of a song.
Fadme	 A fathom.
Fady	 Faded.
Faecal	 See Fecal.
Faeces	 Excrement; ordure; also, settlings; sediment after infusion or distillation.
Faecula	 See Fecula.
Faery	 Fairy.
Faffle	 To stammer.
Fag	 A knot or coarse part in cloth.
Fagged	 of Fag
Fagging	 of Fag
Fag	 To become weary
Fag	 To labor to wearness
Fag	 To act as a fag, or perform menial services or drudgery, for another, as in some English schools.
Fag	 To tire by labor; to exhaust; as, he was almost fagged out.
Fag	 Anything that fatigues.
Fagend	 An end of poorer quality, or in a spoiled condition, as the coarser end of a web of cloth, the untwisted end of a rope, ect.
Fagend	 The refuse or meaner part of anything.
Fagging	 Laborious drudgery; esp., the acting as a drudge for another at an English school.
Fagot	 A bundle of sticks, twigs, or small branches of trees, used for fuel, for raising batteries, filling ditches, or other purposes in fortification; a fascine.
Fagot	 A bundle of pieces of wrought iron to be worked over into bars or other shapes by rolling or hammering at a welding heat
Fagot	 A bassoon. See Fagotto.
Fagot	 A person hired to take the place of another at the muster of a company.
Fagot	 An old shriveled woman.
Fagoted	 of Fagot
Fagoting	 of Fagot
Fagot	 To make a fagot of; to bind together in a fagot or bundle; also, to collect promiscuously.
Fagotto	 The bassoon; -- so called from being divided into parts for ease of carriage, making, as it were, a small fagot.
Faham	 The leaves of an orchid (Angraecum fragrans), of the islands of Bourbon and Mauritius, used (in France) as a substitute for Chinese tea.
Fahlband	 A stratum in crystalline rock, containing metallic sulphides.
Fahlerz	 Alt. of Fahlband
Fahlband	 Same as Tetrahedrite.
Fahlunite	 A hydration of iolite.
Fahrenheit	 Conforming to the scale used by Gabriel Daniel Fahrenheit in the graduation of his thermometer
Fahrenheit	 The Fahrenheit termometer or scale.
Faience	 Glazed earthenware; esp., that which is decorated in color.
Failed	 of Fail
Failing	 of Fail
Fail	 To be wanting; to fall short; to be or become deficient in any measure or degree up to total absence; to cease to be furnished in the usual or expected manner, or to be altogether cut off from supply; to be lacking; as, streams fail; crops fail.
Fail	 To be affected with want
Fail	 To fall away
Fail	 To deteriorate in respect to vigor, activity, resources, etc.; to become weaker; as, a sick man fails.
Fail	 To perish
Fail	 To be found wanting with respect to an action or a duty to be performed, a result to be secured, etc.; to miss; not to fulfill expectation.
Fail	 To come short of a result or object aimed at or desired 
Fail	 To err in judgment
Fail	 To become unable to meet one's engagements; especially, to be unable to pay one's debts or discharge one's business obligation; to become bankrupt or insolvent.
Fail	 To be wanting to 
Fail	 To miss of attaining
Fail	 Miscarriage; failure; deficiency; fault; -- mostly superseded by failure or failing, except in the phrase without fail.
Fail	 Death
Failance	 Fault
Failing	 A failing short; a becoming deficient; failure; deficiency; imperfection; weakness; lapse; fault; infirmity; as, a mental failing.
Failing	 The act of becoming insolvent of bankrupt.
Faille	 A soft silk, heavier than a foulard and not glossy.
Failure	 Cessation of supply, or total defect; a failing; deficiency; as, failure of rain; failure of crops.
Failure	 Omission; nonperformance; as, the failure to keep a promise.
Failure	 Want of success
Failure	 Decay, or defect from decay; deterioration; as, the failure of memory or of sight.
Failure	 A becoming insolvent; bankruptcy; suspension of payment; as, failure in business.
Failure	 A failing
Fain	 Well-pleased
Fain	 Satisfied; contented; also, constrained.
Fain	 With joy
Fain	 To be glad 
Faineant	 Doing nothing
Faineant	 A do-nothing
Faint	 Lacking strength; weak; languid; inclined to swoon; as, faint with fatigue, hunger, or thirst.
Faint	 Wanting in courage, spirit, or energy; timorous; cowardly; dejected; depressed; as, "Faint heart ne'er won fair lady."
Faint	 Lacking distinctness; hardly perceptible; striking the senses feebly; not bright, or loud, or sharp, or forcible; weak; as, a faint color, or sound.
Faint	 Performed, done, or acted, in a weak or feeble manner; not exhibiting vigor, strength, or energy; slight; as, faint efforts; faint resistance.
Faint	 The act of fainting, or the state of one who has fainted; a swoon. [R.] See Fainting, n.
Fainted	 of Faint
Fainting	 of Faint
Faint	 To become weak or wanting in vigor; to grow feeble; to lose strength and color, and the control of the bodily or mental functions; to swoon; -- sometimes with away. See Fainting, n.
Faint	 To sink into dejection
Faint	 To decay
Faint	 To cause to faint or become dispirited
Fainthearted	 Wanting in courage
Fainting	 Syncope, or loss of consciousness owing to a sudden arrest of the blood supply to the brain, the face becoming pallid, the respiration feeble, and the heat's beat weak.
Faintish	 Slightly faint
Faintling	 Timorous
Faintly	 In a faint, weak, or timidmanner.
Faintness	 The state of being faint; loss of strength, or of consciousness, and self-control.
Faintness	 Want of vigor or energy.
Faintness	 Feebleness, as of color or light; lack of distinctness; as, faintness of description.
Faintness	 Faint-heartedness
Faints	 The impure spirit which comes over first and last in the distillation of whisky; -- the former being called the strong faints, and the latter, which is much more abundant, the weak faints. This crude spirit is much impregnated with fusel oil.
Fainty	 Feeble
Fair	 Free from spots, specks, dirt, or imperfection; unblemished; clean; pure.
Fair	 Pleasing to the eye
Fair	 Without a dark hue; light; clear; as, a fair skin.
Fair	 Not overcast; cloudless; clear; pleasant; propitious; favorable; -- said of the sky, weather, or wind, etc.; as, a fair sky; a fair day.
Fair	 Free from obstacles or hindrances; unobstructed; unincumbered; open; direct; -- said of a road, passage, etc.; as, a fair mark; in fair sight; a fair view.
Fair	 Without sudden change of direction or curvature; smooth; fowing; -- said of the figure of a vessel, and of surfaces, water lines, and other lines.
Fair	 Characterized by frankness, honesty, impartiality, or candor; open; upright; free from suspicion or bias; equitable; just; -- said of persons, character, or conduct; as, a fair man; fair dealing; a fair statement.
Fair	 Pleasing; favorable; inspiring hope and confidence; -- said of words, promises, etc.
Fair	 Distinct; legible; as, fair handwriting.
Fair	 Free from any marked characteristic; average; middling; as, a fair specimen.
Fair	 Clearly
Fair	 Fairness, beauty.
Fair	 A fair woman
Fair	 Good fortune
Fair	 To make fair or beautiful.
Fair	 To make smooth and flowing, as a vessel's lines.
Fair	 A gathering of buyers and sellers, assembled at a particular place with their merchandise at a stated or regular season, or by special appointment, for trade.
Fair	 A festival, and sale of fancy articles. erc., usually for some charitable object; as, a Grand Army fair.
Fair	 A competitive exhibition of wares, farm products, etc., not primarily for purposes of sale; as, the Mechanics' fair; an agricultural fair.
Fair-haired	 Having fair or light-colored hair.
Fairhood	 Fairness
Fairily	 In the manner of a fairy.
Fairing	 A present; originally, one given or purchased at a fair.
Fairish	 Tolerably fair.
Fair-leader	 A block, or ring, serving as a guide for the running rigging or for any rope.
Fairly	 In a fair manner
Fairly	 Favorably; auspiciously; commodiously; as, a town fairly situated for foreign traade.
Fairly	 Honestly
Fairly	 Softly
Fair-minded	 Unprejudiced
Fair-natured	 Well-disposed.
Fairness	 The state of being fair, or free form spots or stains, as of the skin; honesty, as of dealing; candor, as of an argument, etc.
Faair-spoken	 Using fair speech, or uttered with fairness; bland; civil; courteous; plausible.
Fairway	 The navigable part of a river, bay, etc., through which vessels enter or depart; the part of a harbor or channel ehich is kept open and unobstructed for the passage of vessels.
Fair-weather	 Made or done in pleasant weather, or in circumstances involving but little exposure or sacrifice; as, a fair-weather voyage.
Fair-weather	 Appearing only when times or circumstances are prosperous; as, a fair-weather friend.
Fair-world	 State of prosperity.
Fairies	 of Fairy
Fairy	 Enchantment
Fairy	 The country of the fays
Fairy	 An imaginary supernatural being or spirit, supposed to assume a human form (usually diminutive), either male or female, and to meddle for good or evil in the affairs of mankind; a fay. See Elf, and Demon.
Fairy	 An enchantress.
Fairy	 Of or pertaining to fairies.
Fairy	 Given by fairies; as, fairy money.
Fairyland	 The imaginary land or abode of fairies.
Fairylike	 Resembling a fairy, or what is made or done be fairies; as, fairylike music.
Faith	 Belief; the assent of the mind to the truth of what is declared by another, resting solely and implicitly on his authority and veracity; reliance on testimony.
Faith	 The assent of the mind to the statement or proposition of another, on the ground of the manifest truth of what he utters; firm and earnest belief, on probable evidence of any kind, especially in regard to important moral truth.
Faith	 The belief in the historic truthfulness of the Scripture narrative, and the supernatural origin of its teachings, sometimes called historical and speculative faith.
Faith	 The belief in the facts and truth of the Scriptures, with a practical love of them; especially, that confiding and affectionate belief in the person and work of Christ, which affects the character and life, and makes a man a true Christian, -- called a practical, evangelical, or saving faith.
Faith	 That which is believed on any subject, whether in science, politics, or religion; especially (Theol.), a system of religious belief of any kind; as, the Jewish or Mohammedan faith; and especially, the system of truth taught by Christ; as, the Christian faith; also, the creed or belief of a Christian society or church.
Faith	 Fidelity to one's promises, or allegiance to duty, or to a person honored and beloved; loyalty.
Faith	 Word or honor pledged; promise given; fidelity; as, he violated his faith.
Faith	 Credibility or truth.
Faith	 By my faith
Faithed	 Having faith or a faith
Faithful	 Full of faith, or having faith; disposed to believe, especially in the declarations and promises of God.
Faithful	 Firm in adherence to promises, oaths, contracts, treaties, or other engagements.
Faithful	 True and constant in affection or allegiance to a person to whom one is bound by a vow, be ties of love, gratitude, or honor, as to a husband, a prince, a friend; firm in the observance of duty; loyal; of true fidelity; as, a faithful husband or servant.
Faithful	 Worthy of confidence and belief; conformable to truth ot fact; exact; accurate; as, a faithful narrative or representation.
Faithless	 Not believing
Faithless	 Not believing on God or religion; specifically, not believing in the Christian religion.
Faithless	 Not observant of promises or covenants.
Faithless	 Not true to allegiance, duty, or vows; perfidious; trecherous; disloyal; not of true fidelity; inconstant, as a husband or a wife.
Faithless	 Serving to disappoint or deceive
Faitour	 A doer or actor; particularly, an evil doer; a scoundrel.
Fake	 One of the circles or windings of a cable or hawser, as it lies in a coil; a single turn or coil.
Fake	 To coil (a rope, line, or hawser), by winding alternately in opposite directions, in layers usually of zigzag or figure of eight form,, to prevent twisting when running out.
Fake	 To cheat
Fake	 To make
Fake	 To manipulate fraudulently, so as to make an object appear better or other than it really is; as, to fake a bulldog, by burning his upper lip and thus artificially shortening it.
Fake	 A trick
Fakir	 An Oriental religious ascetic or begging monk.
Falanaka	 A viverrine mammal of Madagascar (Eupleres Goudotii), allied to the civet; -- called also Falanouc.
Falcade	 The action of a horse, when he throws himself on his haunches two or three times, bending himself, as it were, in very quick curvets.
Falcate	 Alt. of Falcated
Falcated	 Hooked or bent like a sickle; as, a falcate leaf; a falcate claw; -- said also of the moon, or a planet, when horned or crescent-formed.
Falcation	 The state of being falcate
Falcer	 One of the mandibles of a spider.
Falchion	 A broad-bladed sword, slightly curved, shorter and lighter than the ordinary sword; -- used in the Middle Ages.
Falchion	 A name given generally and poetically to a sword, especially to the swords of Oriental and fabled warriors.
Falcidian	 Of or pertaining to Publius Falcidius, a Roman tribune.
Falciform	 Having the shape of a scithe or sickle; resembling a reaping hook; as, the falciform ligatment of the liver.
Falcon	 One of a family (Falconidae) of raptorial birds, characterized by a short, hooked beak, strong claws, and powerful flight.
Falcon	 Any species of the genus Falco, distinguished by having a toothlike lobe on the upper mandible; especially, one of this genus trained to the pursuit of other birds, or game.
Falcon	 An ancient form of cannon.
Falconer	 A person who breeds or trains hawks for taking birds or game
Falconet	 One of the smaller cannon used in the 15th century and later.
Falconet	 One of several very small Asiatic falcons of the genus Microhierax.
Falconet	 One of a group of Australian birds of the genus Falcunculus, resembling shrikes and titmice.
Falcongentil	 The female or young of the goshawk (Astur palumbarius).
Falconine	 Like a falcon or hawk
Falconry	 The art of training falcons or hawks to pursue and attack wild fowl or game.
Falconry	 The sport of taking wild fowl or game by means of falcons or hawks.
Falcula	 A curved and sharp-pointed claw.
Falculate	 Curved and sharppointed, like a falcula, or claw of a falcon.
Faldage	 A privilege of setting up, and moving about, folds for sheep, in any fields within manors, in order to manure them; -- often reserved to himself by the lord of the manor.
Faldfee	 A fee or rent paid by a tenant for the privilege of faldage on his own ground.
Falding	 A frieze or rough-napped cloth.
Faldistory	 The throne or seat of a bishop within the chancel.
Faldstool	 A folding stool, or portable seat, made to fold up in the manner of a camo stool. It was formerly placed in the choir for a bishop, when he offciated in any but his own cathedral church.
Falernian	 Of or pertaining to Mount Falernus, in Italy; as, Falernianwine.
Falk	 The razorbill.
Fell	 of Fall
Fallen	 of Fall
Falling	 of Fall
Fall	 To Descend, either suddenly or gradually; particularly, to descend by the force of gravity; to drop; to sink; as, the apple falls; the tide falls; the mercury falls in the barometer.
Fall	 To cease to be erect; to take suddenly a recumbent posture; to become prostrate; to drop; as, a child totters and falls; a tree falls; a worshiper falls on his knees.
Fall	 To find a final outlet; to discharge its waters; to empty; -- with into; as, the river Rhone falls into the Mediterranean.
Fall	 To become prostrate and dead; to die; especially, to die by violence, as in battle.
Fall	 To cease to be active or strong; to die away; to lose strength; to subside; to become less intense; as, the wind falls.
Fall	 To issue forth into life
Fall	 To decline in power, glory, wealth, or importance; to become insignificant; to lose rank or position; to decline in weight, value, price etc.; to become less; as, the falls; stocks fell two points.
Fall	 To be overthrown or captured
Fall	 To descend in character or reputation; to become degraded; to sink into vice, error, or sin; to depart from the faith; to apostatize; to sin.
Fall	 To become insnared or embarrassed
Fall	 To assume a look of shame or disappointment
Fall	 To sink; to languish; to become feeble or faint; as, our spirits rise and fall with our fortunes.
Fall	 To pass somewhat suddenly, and passively, into a new state of body or mind; to become; as, to fall asleep; to fall into a passion; to fall in love; to fall into temptation.
Fall	 To happen
Fall	 To come
Fall	 To begin with haste, ardor, or vehemence; to rush or hurry; as, they fell to blows.
Fall	 To pass or be transferred by chance, lot, distribution, inheritance, or otherwise; as, the estate fell to his brother; the kingdom fell into the hands of his rivals.
Fall	 To belong or appertain.
Fall	 To be dropped or uttered carelessly; as, an unguarded expression fell from his lips; not a murmur fell from him.
Fall	 To let fall
Fall	 To sink; to depress; as, to fall the voice.
Fall	 To diminish
Fall	 To bring forth; as, to fall lambs.
Fall	 To fell; to cut down; as, to fall a tree.
Fall	 The act of falling; a dropping or descending be the force of gravity; descent; as, a fall from a horse, or from the yard of ship.
Fall	 The act of dropping or tumbling from an erect posture; as, he was walking on ice, and had a fall.
Fall	 Death
Fall	 Downfall; degradation; loss of greatness or office; termination of greatness, power, or dominion; ruin; overthrow; as, the fall of the Roman empire.
Fall	 The surrender of a besieged fortress or town ; as, the fall of Sebastopol.
Fall	 Diminution or decrease in price or value; depreciation; as, the fall of prices; the fall of rents.
Fall	 A sinking of tone; cadence; as, the fall of the voice at the close of a sentence.
Fall	 Declivity
Fall	 Descent of water; a cascade; a cataract; a rush of water down a precipice or steep; -- usually in the plural, sometimes in the singular; as, the falls of Niagara.
Fall	 The discharge of a river or current of water into the ocean, or into a lake or pond; as, the fall of the Po into the Gulf of Venice.
Fall	 Extent of descent; the distance which anything falls; as, the water of a stream has a fall of five feet.
Fall	 The season when leaves fall from trees
Fall	 That which falls; a falling; as, a fall of rain; a heavy fall of snow.
Fall	 The act of felling or cutting down.
Fall	 Lapse or declension from innocence or goodness. Specifically: The first apostasy; the act of our first parents in eating the forbidden fruit; also, the apostasy of the rebellious angels.
Fall	 Formerly, a kind of ruff or band for the neck; a falling band; a faule.
Fall	 That part (as one of the ropes) of a tackle to which the power is applied in hoisting.
Fallacious	 Embodying or pertaining to a fallacy; illogical; fitted to deceive; misleading; delusive; as, fallacious arguments or reasoning.
Fallacies	 of Fallacy
Fallacy	 Deceptive or false appearance
Fallacy	 An argument, or apparent argument, which professes to be decisive of the matter at issue, while in reality it is not; a sophism.
Fallals	 Gay ornaments
Fallax	 Cavillation
Fallen	 Dropped
Fallency	 An exception.
Faller	 One who, or that which, falls.
Faller	 A part which acts by falling, as a stamp in a fulling mill, or the device in a spinning machine to arrest motion when a thread breaks.
Fallfish	 A fresh-water fish of the United States (Semotilus bullaris); -- called also silver chub, and Shiner. The name is also applied to other allied species.
Fallibility	 The state of being fallible; liability to deceive or to be deceived; as, the fallibity of an argument or of an adviser.
Fallible	 Liable to fail, mistake, or err; liable to deceive or to be deceived; as, all men are fallible; our opinions and hopes are fallible.
Fallibly	 In a fallible manner.
Falling	 from Fall, v. i.
Fallopian	 Pertaining to, or discovered by, Fallopius; as, the Fallopian tubes or oviducts, the ducts or canals which conduct the ova from the ovaries to the uterus.
Fallow	 Pale red or pale yellow; as, a fallow deer or greyhound.
Fallow	 Left untilled or unsowed after plowing; uncultivated; as, fallow ground.
Fallow	 Plowed land.
Fallow	 Land that has lain a year or more untilled or unseeded
Fallow	 The plowing or tilling of land, without sowing it for a season; as, summer fallow, properly conducted, has ever been found a sure method of destroying weeds.
Fallowed	 of Fallow
Fallowing	 of Fallow
Fallow	 To plow, harrow, and break up, as land, without seeding, for the purpose of destroying weeds and insects, and rendering it mellow; as, it is profitable to fallow cold, strong, clayey land.
Fallow	 deer A European species of deer (Cervus dama), much smaller than the red deer. In summer both sexes are spotted with white. It is common in England, where it is often domesticated in the parks.
Fallowist	 One who favors the practice of fallowing land.
Fallowness	 A well or opening, through the successive floors of a warehouse or manufactory, through which goods are raised or lowered.
Falsary	 A falsifier of evidence.
False	 Uttering falsehood; unveracious; given to deceit; dishnest; as, a false witness.
False	 Not faithful or loyal, as to obligations, allegiance, vows, etc.; untrue; treacherous; perfidious; as, a false friend, lover, or subject; false to promises.
False	 Not according with truth or reality; not true; fitted or likely to deceive or disappoint; as, a false statement.
False	 Not genuine or real; assumed or designed to deceive; counterfeit; hypocritical; as, false tears; false modesty; false colors; false jewelry.
False	 Not well founded; not firm or trustworthy; erroneous; as, a false claim; a false conclusion; a false construction in grammar.
False	 Not essential or permanent, as parts of a structure which are temporary or supplemental.
False	 Not in tune.
False	 Not truly
False	 To report falsely
False	 To betray
False	 To mislead by want of truth
False	 To feign
False-faced	 Hypocritical.
False-heart	 False-hearted.
False-hearted	 Hollow or unsound at the core
Falsehood	 Want of truth or accuracy
Falsehood	 A deliberate intentional assertion of what is known to be untrue
Falsehood	 Treachery
Falsehood	 A counterfeit
Falsely	 In a false manner
Falseness	 The state of being false; contrariety to the fact; inaccuracy; want of integrity or uprightness; double dealing; unfaithfulness; treachery; perfidy; as, the falseness of a report, a drawing, or a singer's notes; the falseness of a man, or of his word.
Falser	 A deceiver.
Falsettos	 of Falsetto
Falsetto	 A false or artificial voice; that voice in a man which lies above his natural voice; the male counter tenor or alto voice. See Head voice, under Voice.
Falsicrimen	 The crime of falsifying.
Falsifiable	 Capable of being falsified, counterfeited, or corrupted.
Falsification	 The act of falsifying, or making false; a counterfeiting; the giving to a thing an appearance of something which it is not.
Falsification	 Willful misstatement or misrepresentation.
Falsification	 The showing an item of charge in an account to be wrong.
Falsificator	 A falsifier.
Falsifier	 One who falsifies, or gives to a thing a deceptive appearance; a liar.
Falsified	 of Falsify
Falsifying	 of Falsify
Falsify	 To make false
Falsify	 To counterfeit; to forge; as, to falsify coin.
Falsify	 To prove to be false, or untrustworthy; to confute; to disprove; to nullify; to make to appear false.
Falsify	 To violate; to break by falsehood; as, to falsify one's faith or word.
Falsify	 To baffle or escape; as, to falsify a blow.
Falsify	 To avoid or defeat; to prove false, as a judgment.
Falsify	 To show, in accounting, (an inem of charge inserted in an account) to be wrong.
Falsify	 To make false by multilation or addition; to tamper with; as, to falsify a record or document.
Falsify	 To tell lies
Falsism	 That which is evidently false
Falsities	 of Falsity
Falsity	 The quality of being false
Falsity	 That which is false
Falter	 To thrash in the chaff; also, to cleanse or sift, as barley.
Faltered	 of Falter
Faltering	 of Falter
Falter	 To hesitate; to speak brokenly or weakly; to stammer; as, his tongue falters.
Falter	 To tremble
Falter	 To hesitate in purpose or action.
Falter	 To fail in distinctness or regularity of exercise
Falter	 To utter with hesitation, or in a broken, trembling, or weak manner.
Falter	 Hesitation; trembling; feebleness; an uncertain or broken sound; as, a slight falter in her voice.
Faltering	 Hesitating
Faltering	 Falter
Faluns	 A series of strata, of the Middle Tertiary period, of France, abounding in shells, and used by Lyell as the type of his Miocene subdivision.
Falwe	 Fallow.
Falx	 A curved fold or process of the dura mater or the peritoneum; esp., one of the partitionlike folds of the dura mater which extend into the great fissures of the brain.
Famble	 To stammer.
Famble	 A hand.
Fame	 Public report or rumor.
Fame	 Report or opinion generally diffused; renown; public estimation; celebrity, either favorable or unfavorable; as, the fame of Washington.
Famed	 of Fame
Faming	 of Fame
Fame	 To report widely or honorably.
Fame	 To make famous or renowned.
Fameless	 Without fame or renown.
Familiar	 Of or pertaining to a family
Familiar	 Closely acquainted or intimate, as a friend or companion; well versed in, as any subject of study; as, familiar with the Scriptures.
Familiar	 Characterized by, or exhibiting, the manner of an intimate friend; not formal; unconstrained; easy; accessible.
Familiar	 Well known; well understood; common; frequent; as, a familiar illustration.
Familiar	 Improperly acquainted
Familiar	 An intimate
Familiar	 An attendant demon or evil spirit.
Familiar	 A confidential officer employed in the service of the tribunal, especially in apprehending and imprisoning the accused.
Familiarities	 of Familiarity
Familiarity	 The state of being familiar; intimate and frequent converse, or association; unconstrained intercourse; freedom from ceremony and constraint; intimacy; as, to live in remarkable familiarity.
Familiarity	 Anything said or done by one person to another unceremoniously and without constraint; esp., in the pl., such actions and words as propriety and courtesy do not warrant; liberties.
Familiarization	 The act or process of making familiar; the result of becoming familiar; as, familiarization with scenes of blood.
Familiarized	 of Familiarize
Familiarizing	 of Familiarize
Familiarize	 To make familiar or intimate; to habituate; to accustom; to make well known by practice or converse; as, to familiarize one's self with scenes of distress.
Familiarize	 To make acquainted, or skilled, by practice or study; as, to familiarize one's self with a business, a book, or a science.
Familiarly	 In a familiar manner.
Familiarness	 Familiarity.
Familiary	 Of or pertaining to a family or household
Familism	 The tenets of the Familists.
Familist	 One of afanatical Antinomian sect originating in Holland, and existing in England about 1580, called the Family of Love, who held that religion consists wholly in love.
Familisteries	 of Familistery
Familistery	 A community in which many persons unite as in one family, and are regulated by certain communistic laws and customs.
Familistic	 Alt. of Familistical
Familistical	 Pertaining to Familists.
Families	 of Family
Family	 The collective body of persons who live in one house, and under one head or manager; a household, including parents, children, and servants, and, as the case may be, lodgers or boarders.
Family	 The group comprising a husband and wife and their dependent children, constituting a fundamental unit in the organization of society.
Family	 Those who descend from one common progenitor; a tribe, clan, or race; kindred; house; as, the human family; the family of Abraham; the father of a family.
Family	 Course of descent
Family	 Honorable descent; noble or respectable stock; as, a man of family.
Family	 A group of kindred or closely related individuals; as, a family of languages; a family of States; the chlorine family.
Family	 A group of organisms, either animal or vegetable, related by certain points of resemblance in structure or development, more comprehensive than a genus, because it is usually based on fewer or less pronounced points of likeness. In zoology a family is less comprehesive than an order; in botany it is often considered the same thing as an order.
Famine	 General scarcity of food
Famished	 of Famish
Famishing	 of Famish
Famish	 To starve, kill, or destroy with hunger.
Famish	 To exhaust the strength or endurance of, by hunger; to distress with hanger.
Famish	 To kill, or to cause to suffer extremity, by deprivation or denial of anything necessary.
Famish	 To force or constrain by famine.
Famish	 To die of hunger
Famish	 To suffer extreme hunger or thirst, so as to be exhausted in strength, or to come near to perish.
Famish	 To suffer extremity from deprivation of anything essential or necessary.
Famishment	 State of being famished.
Famosity	 The state or quality of being famous.
Famous	 Celebrated in fame or public report; renowned; mach talked of; distinguished in story; -- used in either a good or a bad sense, chiefly the former; often followed by for; as, famous for erudition, for eloquence, for military skill; a famous pirate.
Famoused	 Renowned.
Famously	 In a famous manner
Famousness	 The state of being famous.
Famular	 Domestic
Famulate	 To serve.
Famulist	 A collegian of inferior rank or position, corresponding to the sizar at Cambridge.
Fan	 An instrument used for producing artificial currents of air, by the wafting or revolving motion of a broad surface
Fan	 An instrument for cooling the person, made of feathers, paper, silk, etc., and often mounted on sticks all turning about the same pivot, so as when opened to radiate from the center and assume the figure of a section of a circle.
Fan	 Any revolving vane or vanes used for producing currents of air, in winnowing grain, blowing a fire, ventilation, etc., or for checking rapid motion by the resistance of the air; a fan blower; a fan wheel.
Fan	 An instrument for winnowing grain, by moving which the grain is tossed and agitated, and the chaff is separated and blown away.
Fan	 Something in the form of a fan when spread, as a peacock's tail, a window, etc.
Fan	 A small vane or sail, used to keep the large sails of a smock windmill always in the direction of the wind.
Fan	 That which produces effects analogous to those of a fan, as in exciting a flame, etc.; that which inflames, heightens, or strengthens; as, it served as a fan to the flame of his passion.
Fan	 A quintain
Fanned	 of Fan
Fanning	 of Fan
Fan	 To move as with a fan.
Fan	 To cool and refresh, by moving the air with a fan; to blow the air on the face of with a fan.
Fan	 To ventilate
Fan	 To winnow; to separate chaff from, and drive it away by a current of air; as, to fan wheat.
Fan	 To excite or stir up to activity, as a fan axcites a flame; to stimulate; as, this conduct fanned the excitement of the populace.
Fanal	 A lighthouse, or the apparatus placed in it for giving light.
Fanatic	 Pertaining to, or indicating, fanaticism; extravagant in opinions; ultra; unreasonable; excessively enthusiastic, especially on religious subjects; as, fanatic zeal; fanatic notions.
Fanatic	 A person affected by excessive enthusiasm, particularly on religious subjects; one who indulges wild and extravagant notions of religion.
Fanatical	 Characteristic of, or relating to, fanaticism; fanatic.
Fanaticism	 Excessive enthusiasm, unreasoning zeal, or wild and extravagant notions, on any subject, especially religion; religious frenzy.
Fanaticized	 of Fanaticize
Fanaticizing	 of Fanaticize
Fanaticize	 To cause to become a fanatic.
Fanatism	 Fanaticism.
Fancied	 Formed or conceived by the fancy; unreal; as, a fancied wrong.
Fancier	 One who is governed by fancy.
Fancier	 One who fancies or has a special liking for, or interest in, a particular object or class or objects; hence, one who breeds and keeps for sale birds and animals; as, bird fancier, dog fancier, etc.
Fanciful	 Full of fancy; guided by fancy, rather than by reason and experience; whimsical; as, a fanciful man forms visionary projects.
Fanciful	 Conceived in the fancy; not consistent with facts or reason; abounding in ideal qualities or figures; as, a fanciful scheme; a fanciful theory.
Fanciful	 Curiously shaped or constructed; as, she wore a fanciful headdress.
Fanciless	 Having no fancy
Fancies	 of Fancy
Fancy	 The faculty by which the mind forms an image or a representation of anything perceived before; the power of combining and modifying such objects into new pictures or images; the power of readily and happily creating and recalling such objects for the purpose of amusement, wit, or embellishment; imagination.
Fancy	 An image or representation of anything formed in the mind
Fancy	 An opinion or notion formed without much reflection
Fancy	 Inclination; liking, formed by caprice rather than reason; as, to strike one's fancy; hence, the object of inclination or liking.
Fancy	 That which pleases or entertains the taste or caprice without much use or value.
Fancy	 A sort of love song or light impromptu ballad.
Fancied	 of Fancy
Fancying	 of Fancy
Fancy	 To figure to one's self
Fancy	 To love.
Fancy	 To form a conception of
Fancy	 To have a fancy for; to like; to be pleased with, particularly on account of external appearance or manners.
Fancy	 To believe without sufficient evidence
Fancy	 Adapted to please the fancy or taste; ornamental; as, fancy goods.
Fancy	 Extravagant
Fancy-free	 Free from the power of love.
Fancymonger	 A lovemonger
Fancy-sick	 Love-sick.
Fancywork	 Ornamental work with a needle or hook, as embroidery, crocheting, netting, etc.
Fand	 imp. of Find.
Fandangoes	 of Fandango
Fandango	 A lively dance, in 3-8 or 6-8 time, much practiced in Spain and Spanish America. Also, the tune to which it is danced.
Fandango	 A ball or general dance, as in Mexico.
Fane	 A temple
Fane	 A weathercock.
Fanega	 A dry measure in Spain and Spanish America, varying from 1/ to 2/ bushels; also, a measure of land.
Fanfare	 A flourish of trumpets, as in coming into the lists, etc.; also, a short and lively air performed on hunting horns during the chase.
Fanfaron	 A bully
Fanfaronade	 A swaggering
Fanfoot	 A species of gecko having the toes expanded into large lobes for adhesion. The Egyptian fanfoot (Phyodactylus gecko) is believed, by the natives, to have venomous toes.
Fanfoot	 Any moth of the genus Polypogon.
Fang	 To catch; to seize, as with the teeth; to lay hold of; to gripe; to clutch.
Fang	 To enable to catch or tear
Fang	 The tusk of an animal, by which the prey is seized and held or torn; a long pointed tooth; esp., one of the usually erectile, venomous teeth of serpents. Also, one of the falcers of a spider.
Fang	 Any shoot or other thing by which hold is taken.
Fang	 The root, or one of the branches of the root, of a tooth. See Tooth.
Fang	 A niche in the side of an adit or shaft, for an air course.
Fang	 A projecting tooth or prong, as in a part of a lock, or the plate of a belt clamp, or the end of a tool, as a chisel, where it enters the handle.
Fang	 The valve of a pump box.
Fang	 A bend or loop of a rope.
Fanged	 Having fangs or tusks; as, a fanged adder. Also used figuratively.
Fangle	 Something new-fashioned
Fangle	 To fashion.
Fangled	 New made; hence, gaudy; showy; vainly decorated. [Obs., except with the prefix new.] See Newfangled.
Fangleness	 Quality of being fangled.
Fangless	 Destitute of fangs or tusks.
Fangot	 A quantity of wares, as raw silk, etc., from one hundred weight.
Fanion	 A small flag sometimes carried at the head of the baggage of a brigade.
Fanion	 A small flag for marking the stations in surveying.
Fanlike	 Resembling a fan
Fanlike	 folded up like a fan, as certain leaves; plicate.
Fannel	 Same as Fanon.
Fanner	 One who fans.
Fanner	 A fan wheel
Fan-nerved	 Having the nerves or veins arranged in a radiating manner; -- said of certain leaves, and of the wings of some insects.
Fanon	 A term applied to various articles, as: (a) A peculiar striped scarf worn by the pope at mass, and by eastern bishops. (b) A maniple.
Fan	 palm Any palm tree having fan-shaped or radiate leaves; as the Chamaerops humilis of Southern Europe; the species of Sabal and Thrinax in the West Indies, Florida, etc.; and especially the great talipot tree (Corypha umbraculifera) of Ceylon and Malaya. The leaves of the latter are often eighteen feet long and fourteen wide, and are used for umbrellas, tents, and roofs. When cut up, they are used for books and manuscripts.
Fantail	 A variety of the domestic pigeon, so called from the shape of the tail.
Fantail	 Any bird of the Australian genus Rhipidura, in which the tail is spread in the form of a fan during flight. They belong to the family of flycatchers.
Fan-tailed	 Having an expanded, or fan-shaped, tail; as, the fan-tailed pigeon.
Fantasia	 A continuous composition, not divided into what are called movements, or governed by the ordinary rules of musical design, but in which the author's fancy roves unrestricted by set form.
Fantasied	 Filled with fancies or imaginations.
Fantasm	 Same as Phantasm.
Fantast	 One whose manners or ideas are fantastic.
Fantastic	 Existing only in imagination
Fantastic	 Having the nature of a phantom
Fantastic	 Indulging the vagaries of imagination; whimsical; full of absurd fancies; capricious; as, fantastic minds; a fantastic mistress.
Fantastic	 Resembling fantasies in irregularity, caprice, or eccentricity; irregular; oddly shaped; grotesque.
Fantastic	 A person given to fantastic dress, manners, etc.; an eccentric person; a fop.
Fantastical	 Fanciful
Fantasticality	 Fantastically.
Fantastically	 In a fantastic manner.
Fantastic-alness	 The quality of being fantastic.
Fantasticism	 The quality of being fantastical
Fantasticly	 Fantastically.
Fantasticness	 Fantasticalness.
Fantasticco	 A fantastic.
Fantasies	 of Fantasy
Fantasy	 Fancy; imagination; especially, a whimsical or fanciful conception; a vagary of the imagination; whim; caprice; humor.
Fantasy	 Fantastic designs.
Fantasy	 To have a fancy for
Fantoccini	 Puppets caused to perform evolutions or dramatic scenes by means of machinery; also, the representations in which they are used.
Fantom	 See Phantom.
Fap	 Fuddled.
Faquir	 See Fakir.
Far	 A young pig, or a litter of pigs.
Far	 Distant in any direction
Far	 Remote from purpose; contrary to design or wishes; as, far be it from me to justify cruelty.
Far	 Remote in affection or obedience; at a distance, morally or spiritually; t enmity with; alienated.
Far	 Widely different in nature or quality
Far	 The more distant of two; as, the far side (called also off side) of a horse, that is, the right side, or the one opposite to the rider when he mounts.
Far	 To a great extent or distance of space; widely; as, we are separated far from each other.
Far	 To a great distance in time from any point; remotely; as, he pushed his researches far into antiquity.
Far	 In great part; as, the day is far spent.
Far	 In a great proportion
Farabout	 A going out of the way
Farad	 The standard unit of electrical capacity; the capacity of a condenser whose charge, having an electro-motive force of one volt, is equal to the amount of electricity which, with the same electromotive force, passes through one ohm in one second; the capacity, which, charged with one coulomb, gives an electro-motive force of one volt.
Faradic	 Of or pertaining to Michael Faraday, the distinguished electrician; -- applied especially to induced currents of electricity, as produced by certain forms of inductive apparatus, on account of Faraday's investigations of their laws.
Faradism	 Alt. of Faradization
Faradization	 The treatment with faradic or induced currents of electricity for remedial purposes.
Farand	 See Farrand, n.
Farandams	 A fabrik made of silk and wool or hair.
Farantly	 Orderly
Farced	 of Farce
Farcing	 of Farce
Farce	 To stuff with forcemeat; hence, to fill with mingled ingredients; to fill full; to stuff.
Farce	 To render fat.
Farce	 To swell out
Farce	 Stuffing, or mixture of viands, like that used on dressing a fowl; forcemeat.
Farce	 A low style of comedy; a dramatic composition marked by low humor, generally written with little regard to regularity or method, and abounding with ludicrous incidents and expressions.
Farce	 Ridiculous or empty show; as, a mere farce.
Farcement	 Stuffing
Farcical	 Pertaining to farce
Farcical	 Of or pertaining to the disease called farcy. See Farcy, n.
Farcilite	 Pudding stone.
Farcimen	 Alt. of Farcin
Farcin	 Same as Farcy.
Farcing	 Stuffing
Farctate	 Stuffed; filled solid; as, a farctate leaf, stem, or pericarp; -- opposed to tubular or hollow.
Farcy	 A contagious disease of horses, associated with painful ulcerating enlargements, esp. upon the head and limbs. It is of the same nature as glanders, and is often fatal. Called also farcin, and farcimen.
Fard	 Paint used on the face.
Fard	 To paint
Fardage	 See Dunnage.
Fardel	 A bundle or little pack; hence, a burden.
Fardel	 To make up in fardels.
Farding-bag	 The upper stomach of a cow, or other ruminant animal; the rumen.
Fardingdale	 A farthingale.
Fardingdeal	 The fourth part of an acre of land.
Fared	 of Fare
Faring	 of Fare
Fare	 To go
Fare	 To be in any state, or pass through any experience, good or bad; to be attended with any circummstances or train of events, fortunate or unfortunate; as, he fared well, or ill.
Fare	 To be treated or entertained at table, or with bodily or social comforts; to live.
Fare	 To happen well, or ill; -- used impersonally; as, we shall see how it will fare with him.
Fare	 To behave
Fare	 A journey
Fare	 The price of passage or going; the sum paid or due for conveying a person by land or water; as, the fare for crossing a river; the fare in a coach or by railway.
Fare	 Ado
Fare	 Condition or state of things
Fare	 Food; provisions for the table; entertainment; as, coarse fare; delicious fare.
Fare	 The person or persons conveyed in a vehicle; as, a full fare of passengers.
Fare	 The catch of fish on a fishing vessel.
Faren	 p. p. of Fare, v. i.
Farewell	 Go well; good-by; adieu; -- originally applied to a person departing, but by custom now applied both to those who depart and those who remain. It is often separated by the pronoun; as, fare you well; and is sometimes used as an expression of separation only; as, farewell the year; farewell, ye sweet groves; that is, I bid you farewell.
Farewell	 A wish of happiness or welfare at parting
Farewell	 Act of departure; leave-taking; a last look at, or reference to something.
Farewell	 Parting; valedictory; final; as, a farewell discourse; his farewell bow.
Farfet	 Farfetched.
Farfetch	 To bring from far
Farfetch	 Anything brought from far, or brought about with studious care; a deep strategem.
Farfetched	 Brought from far, or from a remote place.
Farfetched	 Studiously sought
Farina	 A fine flour or meal made from cereal grains or from the starch or fecula of vegetables, extracted by various processes, and used in cookery.
Farina	 Pollen.
Farinaceous	 Consisting or made of meal or flour; as, a farinaceous diet.
Farinaceous	 Yielding farina or flour; as, ffarinaceous seeds.
Farinaceous	 Like meal; mealy; pertainiing to meal; as, a farinaceous taste, smell, or appearance.
Farinose	 Yielding farinaa; as, farinose substances.
Farinose	 Civered with a sort of white, mealy powder, as the leaves of some poplars, and the body of certain insects; mealy.
Farl	 Same as Furl.
Farlie	 An unusual or unexpected thing
Farm	 The rent of land, -- originally paid by reservation of part of its products.
Farm	 The term or tenure of a lease of land for cultivation
Farm	 The land held under lease and by payment of rent for the purpose of cultivation.
Farm	 Any tract of land devoted to agricultural purposes, under the management of a tenant or the owner.
Farm	 A district of country leased (or farmed) out for the collection of the revenues of government.
Farm	 A lease of the imposts on particular goods; as, the sugar farm, the silk farm.
Farmed	 of Farm
Farming	 of Farm
Farm	 To lease or let for an equivalent, as land for a rent; to yield the use of to proceeds.
Farm	 To give up to another, as an estate, a business, the revenue, etc., on condition of receiving in return a percentage of what it yields; as, to farm the taxes.
Farm	 To take at a certain rent or rate.
Farm	 To devote (land) to agriculture; to cultivate, as land; to till, as a farm.
Farm	 To engage in the business of tilling the soil
Farmable	 Capable of being farmed.
Farmer	 One who farms
Farmer	 One who hires and cultivates a farm
Farmer	 One who is devoted to the tillage of the soil
Farmer	 One who takes taxes, customs, excise, or other duties, to collect, either paying a fixed annuual rent for the privilege; as, a farmer of the revenues.
Farmer	 The lord of the field, or one who farms the lot and cope of the crown.
Farmeress	 A woman who farms.
Farmership	 Skill in farming.
Farmery	 The buildings and yards necessary for the business of a farm
Farmhouse	 A dwelling house on a farm
Farming	 Pertaining to agriculture; devoted to, adapted to, or engaged in, farming; as, farming tools; farming land; a farming community.
Farming	 The business of cultivating land.
Farmost	 Most distant
Farmstead	 A farm with the building upon it
Farmsteading	 A farmstead.
Farmyard	 The yard or inclosure attached to a barn, or the space inclosed by the farm buildings.
Farness	 The state of being far off
Faro	 A gambling game at cardds, in whiich all the other players play against the dealer or banker, staking their money upon the order in which the cards will lie and be dealt from the pack.
Faroese	 An inhabitant, or, collectively, inhabitants, of the Faroe islands.
Far-off	 Remote; as, the far-off distance. Cf. Far-off, under Far, adv.
Farraginous	 Formed of various materials; mixed; as, a farraginous mountain.
Farrago	 A mass composed of various materials confusedly mixed
Farrand	 Manner
Farreation	 Same as Confarreation.
Farrier	 A shoer of horses
Farrier	 To practice as a farrier
Farriery	 The art of shoeing horses.
Farriery	 The art of preventing, curing, or mitigating diseases of horses and cattle; the veterinary art.
Farriery	 The place where a smith shoes horses.
Farrow	 A little of pigs.
Farrowed	 of Farfow
Farrowing	 of Farfow
Farfow	 To bring forth (young)
Farrow	 Not producing young in a given season or year
Farry	 A farrow.
Farse	 An addition to, or a paraphrase of, some part of the Latin service in the vernacular; -- common in English before the Reformation.
Farseeing	 Able to see to a great distance
Farseeing	 Having foresight as regards the future.
Farsighted	 Seeing to great distance; hence, of good judgment regarding the remote effects of actions; sagacious.
Farsighted	 Hypermetropic.
Farsightedness	 Quality of bbeing farsighted.
Farsightedness	 Hypermetropia.
Farstretched	 Streatched beyond ordinary limits.
Farther	 More remote
Farther	 Tending to a greater distance
Farther	 At or to a greater distance; more remotely; beyond; as, let us rest with what we have, without looking farther.
Farther	 Moreover; by way of progress in treating a subject; as, farther, let us consider the probable event.
Farther	 To help onward. [R.] See Further.
Fartherance	 See Furtherance.
Farthermore	 See Furthermore.
Farthermost	 Most remote
Farthest	 Most distant or remote; as, the farthest degree. See Furthest.
Farthest	 At or to the greatest distance. See Furthest.
Farthing	 The fourth of a penny; a small copper coin of Great Britain, being a cent in United States currency.
Farthing	 A very small quantity or value.
Farthing	 A division of land.
Farthingale	 A hoop skirt or hoop petticoat, or other light, elastic material, used to extend the petticoat.
Fasces	 A bundle of rods, having among them an ax with the blade projecting, borne before the Roman magistrates as a badge of their authority.
Fascet	 A wire basket on the end of a rod to carry glass bottles, etc., to the annealing furnace; also, an iron rod to be thrust into the mouths of bottles, and used for the same purpose; -- called also pontee and punty.
Fasciae	 of Fascia
Fascia	 A band, sash, or fillet; especially, in surgery, a bandage or roller.
Fascia	 A flat member of an order or building, like a flat band or broad fillet; especially, one of the three bands which make up the architrave, in the Ionic order. See Illust. of Column.
Fascia	 The layer of loose tissue, often containing fat, immediately beneath the skin; the stronger layer of connective tissue covering and investing all muscles; an aponeurosis.
Fascia	 A broad well-defined band of color.
Fascial	 Pertaining to the fasces.
Fascial	 Relating to a fascia.
Fasciate	 Alt. of Fasciated
Fasciated	 Bound with a fillet, sash, or bandage.
Fasciated	 Banded or compacted together.
Fasciated	 Flattened and laterally widened, as are often the stems of the garden cockscomb.
Fasciated	 Broadly banded with color.
Fasciation	 The act or manner of binding up; bandage; also, the condition of being fasciated.
Fascicle	 A small bundle or collection; a compact cluster; as, a fascicle of fibers; a fascicle of flowers or roots.
Fascicled	 Growing in a bundle, tuft, or close cluster; as, the fascicled leaves of the pine or larch; the fascicled roots of the dahlia; fascicled muscle fibers; fascicled tufts of hair.
Fascicular	 Pertaining to a fascicle; fascicled; as, a fascicular root.
Fascicularly	 In a fascicled manner.
Fasciculate	 Alt. of Fasciculated
Fasciculated	 Grouped in a fascicle
Fasciculi	 of Fasciculus
Fasciculus	 A little bundle
Fasciculus	 A division of a book.
Fascinated	 of Fascinate
Fascinating	 of Fascinate
Fascinate	 To influence in an uncontrollable manner
Fascinate	 To excite and allure irresistibly or powerfully; to charm; to captivate, as by physical or mental charms.
Fascination	 The act of fascinating, bewhiching, or enchanting; enchantment; witchcraft; the exercise of a powerful or irresistible influence on the affections or passions; unseen, inexplicable influence.
Fascination	 The state or condition of being fascinated.
Fascination	 That which fascinates
Fascine	 A cylindrical bundle of small sticks of wood, bound together, used in raising batteries, filling ditches, strengthening ramparts, and making parapets; also in revetments for river banks, and in mats for dams, jetties, etc.
Fascinous	 Caused or acting by witchcraft.
Fasciolae	 of Fasciola
Fasciola	 A band of gray matter bordering the fimbria in the brain
Fasciole	 A band of minute tubercles, bearing modified spines, on the shells of spatangoid sea urchins. See Spatangoidea.
Fashed	 of Fash
Fashing	 of Fash
Fash	 To vex
Fash	 Vexation
Fashion	 The make or form of anything; the style, shape, appearance, or mode of structure; pattern, model; as, the fashion of the ark, of a coat, of a house, of an altar, etc.; workmanship; execution.
Fashion	 The prevailing mode or style, especially of dress; custom or conventional usage in respect of dress, behavior, etiquette, etc.; particularly, the mode or style usual among persons of good breeding; as, to dress, dance, sing, ride, etc., in the fashion.
Fashion	 Polite, fashionable, or genteel life; social position; good breeding; as, men of fashion.
Fashion	 Mode of action
Fashioned	 of Fashion
Fashioning	 of Fashion
Fashion	 To form
Fashion	 To fit
Fashion	 To make according to the rule prescribed by custom.
Fashion	 To forge or counterfeit.
Fashionable	 Conforming to the fashion or established mode; according with the prevailing form or style; as, a fashionable dress.
Fashionable	 Established or favored by custom or use; current; prevailing at a particular time; as, the fashionable philosophy; fashionable opinions.
Fashionable	 Observant of the fashion or customary mode; dressing or behaving according to the prevailing fashion; as, a fashionable man.
Fashionable	 Genteel; well-bred; as, fashionable society.
Fashionable	 A person who conforms to the fashions
Fashionableness	 State of being fashionable.
Fashionably	 In a fashionable manner.
Fashioned	 Having a certain style or fashion
Fashioner	 One who fashions, forms, ar gives shape to anything.
Fashionist	 An obsequious follower of the modes and fashions.
Fashionless	 Having no fashion.
Fashion-monger	 One who studies the fashions
Fashion-mongering	 Behaving like a fashion-monger.
Fassaite	 A variety of pyroxene, from the valley of Fassa, in the Tyrol.
Fasted	 of Fast
Fasting	 of Fast
Fast	 To abstain from food
Fast	 To practice abstinence as a religious exercise or duty; to abstain from food voluntarily for a time, for the mortification of the body or appetites, or as a token of grief, or humiliation and penitence.
Fast	 Abstinence from food
Fast	 Voluntary abstinence from food, for a space of time, as a spiritual discipline, or as a token of religious humiliation.
Fast	 A time of fasting, whether a day, week, or longer time; a period of abstinence from food or certain kinds of food; as, an annual fast.
Fast	 Firmly fixed; closely adhering; made firm; not loose, unstable, or easily moved; immovable; as, to make fast the door.
Fast	 Firm against attack
Fast	 Firm in adherence; steadfast; not easily separated or alienated; faithful; as, a fast friend.
Fast	 Permanent; not liable to fade by exposure to air or by washing; durable; lasting; as, fast colors.
Fast	 Tenacious
Fast	 Not easily disturbed or broken
Fast	 Moving rapidly; quick in mition; rapid; swift; as, a fast horse.
Fast	 Given to pleasure seeking; disregardful of restraint; reckless; wild; dissipated; dissolute; as, a fast man; a fast liver.
Fast	 In a fast, fixed, or firmly established manner; fixedly; firmly; immovably.
Fast	 In a fast or rapid manner; quickly; swiftly; extravagantly; wildly; as, to run fast; to live fast.
Fast	 That which fastens or holds; especially, (Naut.) a mooring rope, hawser, or chain; -- called, according to its position, a bow, head, quarter, breast, or stern fast; also, a post on a pier around which hawsers are passed in mooring.
Fastened	 of Fasten
Fastening	 of Fasten
Fasten	 To fix firmly; to make fast; to secure, as by a knot, lock, bolt, etc.; as, to fasten a chain to the feet; to fasten a door or window.
Fasten	 To cause to hold together or to something else; to attach or unite firmly; to cause to cleave to something , or to cleave together, by any means; as, to fasten boards together with nails or cords; to fasten anything in our thoughts.
Fasten	 To cause to take close effect; to make to tell; to lay on; as, to fasten a blow.
Fasten	 To fix one's self
Fastener	 One who, or that which, makes fast or firm.
Fastening	 Anything that binds and makes fast, as a lock, catch, bolt, bar, buckle, etc.
Faster	 One who abstains from food.
Fast-handed	 Close-handed
Fasti	 The Roman calendar, which gave the days for festivals, courts, etc., corresponding to a modern almanac.
Fasti	 Records or registers of important events.
Fastidiosity	 Fastidiousness
Fastidious	 Difficult to please; delicate to a fault; suited with difficulty; squeamish; as, a fastidious mind or ear; a fastidious appetite.
Fastigiate	 Alt. of Fastigiated
Fastigiated	 Narrowing towards the top.
Fastigiated	 Clustered, parallel, and upright, as the branches of the Lombardy poplar; pointed.
Fastigiated	 United into a conical bundle, or into a bundle with an enlarged head, like a sheaf of wheat.
Fastish	 Rather fast; also, somewhat dissipated.
Fastly	 Firmly
Fastness	 The state of being fast and firm
Fastness	 A fast place; a stronghold; a fortress or fort; a secure retreat; a castle; as, the enemy retired to their fastnesses in the mountains.
Fastness	 Conciseness of style.
Fastness	 The state of being fast or swift.
Fastuous	 Proud
Fat	 A large tub, cistern, or vessel; a vat.
Fat	 A measure of quantity, differing for different commodities.
Fat	 Abounding with fat
Fat	 Fleshy; characterized by fatness; plump; corpulent; not lean; as, a fat man; a fat ox.
Fat	 Oily
Fat	 Exhibiting the qualities of a fat animal
Fat	 Fertile; productive; as, a fat soil; a fat pasture.
Fat	 Rich; producing a large income; desirable; as, a fat benefice; a fat office; a fat job.
Fat	 Abounding in riches
Fat	 Of a character which enables the compositor to make large wages; -- said of matter containing blank, cuts, or many leads, etc.; as, a fat take; a fat page.
Fat	 An oily liquid or greasy substance making up the main bulk of the adipose tissue of animals, and widely distributed in the seeds of plants. See Adipose tissue, under Adipose.
Fat	 The best or richest productions; the best part; as, to live on the fat of the land.
Fat	 Work. containing much blank, or its equivalent, and, therefore, profitable to the compositor.
Fatted	 of Fat
atting	 of Fat
Fat	 To make fat; to fatten; to make plump and fleshy with abundant food; as, to fat fowls or sheep.
Fat	 To grow fat, plump, and fleshy.
Fatal	 Proceeding from, or appointed by, fate or destiny; necessary; inevitable.
Fatal	 Foreboding death or great disaster.
Fatal	 Causing death or destruction; deadly; mortal; destructive; calamitous; as, a fatal wound; a fatal disease; a fatal day; a fatal error.
Fatalism	 The doctrine that all things are subject to fate, or that they take place by inevitable necessity.
Fatalist	 One who maintains that all things happen by inevitable necessity.
Fatalistic	 Implying, or partaking of the nature of, fatalism.
Fatalities	 of Fatality
Fatality	 The state of being fatal, or proceeding from destiny; invincible necessity, superior to, and independent of, free and rational control.
Fatality	 The state of being fatal; tendency to destruction or danger, as if by decree of fate; mortaility.
Fatality	 That which is decreed by fate or which is fatal
Fatally	 In a manner proceeding from, or determined by, fate.
Fatally	 In a manner issuing in death or ruin; mortally; destructively; as, fatally deceived or wounded.
Fatalness	 Quality of being fatal.
Fata	 Morgana A kind of mirage by which distant objects appear inverted, distorted, displaced, or multiplied. It is noticed particularly at the Straits of Messina, between Calabria and Sicily.
Fatback	 The menhaden.
Fat-brained	 Dull of apprehension.
Fate	 A fixed decree by which the order of things is prescribed
Fate	 Appointed lot; allotted life; arranged or predetermined event; destiny; especially, the final lot; doom; ruin; death.
Fate	 The element of chance in the affairs of life; the unforeseen and unestimated conitions considered as a force shaping events; fortune; esp., opposing circumstances against which it is useless to struggle; as, fate was, or the fates were, against him.
Fate	 The three goddesses, Clotho, Lachesis, and Atropos, sometimes called the Destinies, or Parcaewho were supposed to determine the course of human life. They are represented, one as holding the distaff, a second as spinning, and the third as cutting off the thread.
Fated	 Decreed by fate; destined; doomed; as, he was fated to rule a factious people.
Fated	 Invested with the power of determining destiny.
Fated	 Exempted by fate.
Fateful	 Having the power of serving or accomplishing fate.
Fateful	 Significant of fate
Fathead	 A cyprinoid fish of the Mississippi valley (Pimephales promelas)
Fathead	 A labroid food fish of California
Father	 One who has begotten a child, whether son or daughter; a generator; a male parent.
Father	 A male ancestor more remote than a parent; a progenitor; especially, a first ancestor; a founder of a race or family; -- in the plural, fathers, ancestors.
Father	 One who performs the offices of a parent by maintenance, affetionate care, counsel, or protection.
Father	 A respectful mode of address to an old man.
Father	 A senator of ancient Rome.
Father	 A dignitary of the church, a superior of a convent, a confessor (called also father confessor), or a priest; also, the eldest member of a profession, or of a legislative assembly, etc.
Father	 One of the chief esslesiastical authorities of the first centuries after Christ; -- often spoken of collectively as the Fathers; as, the Latin, Greek, or apostolic Fathers.
Father	 One who, or that which, gives origin; an originator; a producer, author, or contriver; the first to practice any art, profession, or occupation; a distinguished example or teacher.
Father	 The Supreme Being and Creator; God; in theology, the first person in the Trinity.
Fathered	 of Father
Fathering	 of Father
Father	 To make one's self the father of
Father	 To take as one's own child; to adopt; hence, to assume as one's own work; to acknowledge one's self author of or responsible for (a statement, policy, etc.).
Father	 To provide with a father.
Fatherhood	 The state of being a father
Fathers-in-law	 of Father-in-law
Father-in-law	 The father of one's husband or wife
Fatherland	 One's native land
Father-lasher	 A European marine fish (Cottus bubalis), allied to the sculpin; -- called also lucky proach.
Fatherless	 Destitute of a living father; as, a fatherless child.
Fatherless	 Without a known author.
Fatherlessness	 The state of being without a father.
Fatherliness	 The qualities of a father; parantal kindness, care, etc.
Father	 longlegs See Daddy longlegs, 2.
Fatherly	 Like a father in affection and care
Fatherly	 Of or pertaining to a father.
Fathership	 The state of being a father
Fathom	 A measure of length, containing six feet; the space to which a man can extend his arms; -- used chiefly in measuring cables, cordage, and the depth of navigable water by soundings.
Fathom	 The measure or extant of one's capacity; depth, as of intellect; profundity; reach; penetration.
Fathomed	 of Fathom
Fathoming	 of Fathom
Fathom	 To encompass with the arms extended or encircling
Fathom	 The measure by a sounding line; especially, to sound the depth of; to penetrate, measure, and comprehend; to get to the bottom of.
Fathomable	 Capable of being fathomed.
Fathomer	 One who fathoms.
Fathomless	 Incapable of being fathomed
Fathomless	 Incomprehensible.
Fatidical	 Having power to foretell future events; prophetic; fatiloquent; as, the fatidical oak.
Fatiferous	 Fate-bringing
Fatigable	 Easily tired.
Fatigate	 Wearied
Fatigate	 To weary
Fatigation	 Weariness.
Fatigue	 Weariness from bodily labor or mental exertion
Fatigue	 The cause of weariness; labor; toil; as, the fatigues of war.
Fatigue	 The weakening of a metal when subjected to repeated vibrations or strains.
Fatigued	 of Fatigue
Fatiguing	 of Fatigue
Fatigue	 To weary with labor or any bodily or mental exertion
Fatiloquent	 Prophetic
Fatiloquist	 A fortune teller.
Fatimite	 Alt. of Fatimide
Fatimide	 Descended from Fatima, the daughter and only child of Mohammed.
Fatimide	 A descendant of Fatima.
Fatiscence	 A gaping or opening; state of being chinky, or having apertures.
Fat-kidneyed	 Gross
Fatling	 A calf, lamb, kid, or other young animal fattened for slaughter; a fat animal; -- said of such animals as are used for food.
Fatly	 Grossly
Fatner	 One who fattens. [R.] See Fattener.
Fatness	 The quality or state of being fat, plump, or full-fed; corpulency; fullness of flesh.
Fatness	 Hence
Fatness	 That which makes fat or fertile.
Fattened	 of Fatten
Fattining	 of Fatten
Fatten	 To make fat
Fatten	 To make fertile and fruitful; to enrich; as, to fatten land; to fatten fields with blood.
Fatten	 To grow fat or corpulent; to grow plump, thick, or fleshy; to be pampered.
Fattener	 One who, or that which, fattens; that which gives fatness or fertility.
Fattiness	 State or quality of being fatty.
Fattish	 Somewhat fat
Fatty	 Containing fat, or having the qualities of fat; greasy; gross; as, a fatty substance.
Fatuitous	 Stupid
Fatuity	 Weakness or imbecility of mind
Fatuous	 Feeble in mind
Fatuous	 Without reality; illusory, like the ignis fatuus.
Fat-wited	 Dull
Faubourg	 A suburb of French city; also, a district now within a city, but formerly without its walls.
Faucal	 Pertaining to the fauces, or opening of the throat; faucial; esp., (Phon.) produced in the fauces, as certain deep guttural sounds found in the Semitic and some other languages.
Fauces	 The narrow passage from the mouth to the pharynx, situated between the soft palate and the base of the tongue; -- called also the isthmus of the fauces. On either side of the passage two membranous folds, called the pillars of the fauces, inclose the tonsils.
Fauces	 The throat of a calyx, corolla, etc.
Fauces	 That portion of the interior of a spiral shell which can be seen by looking into the aperture.
Faucet	 A fixture for drawing a liquid, as water, molasses, oil, etc., from a pipe, cask, or other vessel, in such quantities as may be desired; -- called also tap, and cock. It consists of a tubular spout, stopped with a movable plug, spigot, valve, or slide.
Faucet	 The enlarged end of a section of pipe which receives the spigot end of the next section.
Fauchion	 See Falchion.
Faucial	 Pertaining to the fauces
Faugh	 An exclamation of contempt, disgust, or abhorrence.
Faulchion	 See Falchion.
Faulcon	 See Falcon.
Fauld	 The arch over the dam of a blast furnace
Faule	 A fall or falling band.
Fault	 Defect
Fault	 Anything that fails, that is wanting, or that impairs excellence; a failing; a defect; a blemish.
Fault	 A moral failing
Fault	 A dislocation of the strata of the vein.
Fault	 In coal seams, coal rendered worthless by impurities in the seam; as, slate fault, dirt fault, etc.
Fault	 A lost scent
Fault	 Failure to serve the ball into the proper court.
Faulted	 of Fault
Faulting	 of Fault
Fault	 To charge with a fault
Fault	 To interrupt the continuity of (rock strata) by displacement along a plane of fracture; -- chiefly used in the p. p.; as, the coal beds are badly faulted.
Fault	 To err; to blunder, to commit a fault; to do wrong.
Faulter	 One who commits a fault.
Fault-finder	 One who makes a practice of discovering others' faults and censuring them
Fault-finding	 The act of finding fault or blaming
Faultful	 Full of faults or sins.
Faultily	 In a faulty manner.
Faultiness	 Quality or state of being faulty.
Faulting	 The state or condition of being faulted
Faultless	 Without fault; not defective or imperfect; free from blemish; free from incorrectness, vice, or offense; perfect; as, a faultless poem.
Faulty	 Containing faults, blemishes, or defects; imperfect; not fit for the use intended.
Faulty	 Guilty of a fault, or of faults; hence, blamable; worthy of censure.
Faun	 A god of fields and shipherds, diddering little from the satyr. The fauns are usually represented as half goat and half man.
Fauna	 The animals of any given area or epoch; as, the fauna of America; fossil fauna; recent fauna.
Faunal	 Relating to fauna.
Faunist	 One who describes the fauna of country
Fauni	 of Faunus
Faunus	 See Faun.
Fausen	 A young eel.
Fausse-braye	 A second raampart, exterior to, and parallel to, the main rampart, and considerably below its level.
Fauteuil	 An armchair; hence (because the members sit in fauteuils or armchairs), membership in the French Academy.
Fauteuil	 Chair of a presiding officer.
Fautor	 A favorer
Fautress	 A patroness.
Fauvette	 A small singing bird, as the nightingale and warblers.
Fauces	 of Faux
Faux	 See Fauces.
faux	 pas A false step
Favaginous	 Formed like, or resembling, a honeycomb.
Favas	 See Favus, n., 2.
Favel	 Yellow
Favel	 A horse of a favel or dun color.
Favel	 Flattery
Favella	 A group of spores arranged without order and covered with a thin gelatinous envelope, as in certain delicate red algae.
Faveolate	 Honeycomb; having cavities or cells, somewhat resembling those of a honeycomb; alveolate; favose.
Favillous	 Of or pertaining to ashes.
Favonian	 Pertaining to the west wind
Favor	 Kind regard
Favor	 The act of countenancing, or the condition of being countenanced, or regarded propitiously; support; promotion; befriending.
Favor	 A kind act or office; kindness done or granted; benevolence shown by word or deed; an act of grace or good will, as distinct from justice or remuneration.
Favor	 Mildness or mitigation of punishment
Favor	 The object of regard
Favor	 A gift or represent; something bestowed as an evidence of good will; a token of love; a knot of ribbons; something worn as a token of affection; as, a marriage favor is a bunch or knot of white ribbons or white flowers worn at a wedding.
Favor	 Appearance
Favor	 Partiality
Favor	 A letter or epistle; -- so called in civility or compliment; as, your favor of yesterday is received.
Favor	 Love locks.
Favored	 of Favor
Favoring	 of Favor
Favor	 To regard with kindness; to support; to aid, or to have the disposition to aid, or to wish success to; to be propitious to; to countenance; to treat with consideration or tenderness; to show partiality or unfair bias towards.
Favor	 To afford advantages for success to; to facilitate; as, a weak place favored the entrance of the enemy.
Favor	 To resemble in features; to have the aspect or looks of; as, the child favors his father.
Favorable	 Full of favor
Favorable	 Conducive
Favorable	 Beautiful
Favored	 Countenanced; aided; regarded with kidness; as, a favored friend.
Favored	 Having a certain favor or appearance; featured; as, well-favored; hard-favored, etc.
Favoredly	 In a favored or a favorable manner
Favoredness	 Appearance.
Favorer	 One who favors
Favoress	 A woman who favors or gives countenance.
Favoring	 That favors.
Favorite	 A person or thing regarded with peculiar favor; one treated with partiality; one preferred above others; especially, one unduly loved, trusted, and enriched with favors by a person of high rank or authority.
Favorite	 Short curls dangling over the temples
Favorite	 The competitor (as a horse in a race) that is judged most likely to win
Favorite	 Regarded with particular affection, esteem, or preference; as, a favorite walk; a favorite child.
Favoritism	 The disposition to favor and promote the interest of one person or family, or of one class of men, to the neglect of others having equal claims; partiality.
Favorless	 Unfavored
Favorless	 Unpropitious
Favose	 Honeycombed. See Faveolate.
Favose	 Of or pertaining to the disease called favus.
Favosite	 Like or pertaining to the genus Favosites.
Favosites	 A genus of fossil corals abundant in the Silurian and Devonian rocks, having polygonal cells with perforated walls.
Favus	 A disease of the scalp, produced by a vegetable parasite.
Favus	 A tile or flagstone cut into an hexagonal shape to produce a honeycomb pattern, as in a pavement; -- called also favas and sectila.
Fawe	 Fain
Fawkner	 A falconer.
Fawn	 A young deer
Fawn	 The young of an animal
Fawn	 A fawn color.
Fawn	 Of the color of a fawn
Fawn	 To bring forth a fawn.
Fawned	 of Fawn
Fawning	 of Fawn
Fawn	 To court favor by low cringing, frisking, etc., as a dog; to flatter meanly; -- often followed by on or upon.
Fawn	 A servile cringe or bow
Fawn-colored	 Of the color of a fawn
Fawner	 One who fawns
Fawningly	 In a fawning manner.
Faxed	 Hairy.
Fay	 A fairy
Fay	 Faith; as, by my fay.
fayed	 of Fay
Faying	 of Fay
Fay	 To fit; to join; to unite closely, as two pieces of wood, so as to make the surface fit together.
Fay	 To lie close together; to fit; to fadge; -- often with in, into, with, or together.
Fayalite	 A black, greenish, or brownish mineral of the chrysolite group. It is a silicate of iron.
Fayence	 See Fa/ence.
Faytour	 See Faitour.
Faze	 See Feeze.
Fazzolet	 A handkerchief.
Feaberry	 A gooseberry.
Feague	 To beat or whip
Feal	 Faithful
Fealty	 Fidelity to one's lord; the feudal obligation by which the tenant or vassal was bound to be faithful to his lord; the special oath by which this obligation was assumed; fidelity to a superior power, or to a government; loyality. It is no longer the practice to exact the performance of fealty, as a feudal obligation.
Fealty	 Fidelity; constancy; faithfulness, as of a friend to a friend, or of a wife to her husband.
Fear	 A variant of Fere, a mate, a companion.
Fear	 A painful emotion or passion excited by the expectation of evil, or the apprehension of impending danger; apprehension; anxiety; solicitude; alarm; dread.
Fear	 Apprehension of incurring, or solicitude to avoid, God's wrath; the trembling and awful reverence felt toward the Supreme Belng.
Fear	 Respectful reverence for men of authority or worth.
Fear	 That which causes, or which is the object of, apprehension or alarm; source or occasion of terror; danger; dreadfulness.
Feared	 of Fear
Fearing	 of Fear
Fear	 To feel a painful apprehension of
Fear	 To have a reverential awe of
Fear	 To be anxious or solicitous for.
Fear	 To suspect
Fear	 To affright
Fear	 To be in apprehension of evil
Fearer	 One who fars.
Fearful	 Full of fear, apprehension, or alarm; afraid; frightened.
Fearful	 inclined to fear
Fearful	 Indicating, or caused by, fear.
Fearful	 Inspiring fear or awe
Fearfully	 In a fearful manner.
Fearfulness	 The state of being fearful.
Fearless	 Free from fear.
Fearnaught	 A fearless person.
Fearnaught	 A stout woolen cloth of great thickness; dreadnaught; also, a warm garment.
Fearsome	 Frightful
Fearsome	 Easily frightened
Feasibilities	 of Feasibility
Feasibility	 The quality of being feasible; practicability; also, that which is feasible; as, before we adopt a plan, let us consider its feasibility.
Feasible	 Capable of being done, executed, or effected; practicable.
Feasible	 Fit to be used or tailed, as land.
Feast	 A festival; a holiday; a solemn, or more commonly, a joyous, anniversary.
Feast	 A festive or joyous meal; a grand, ceremonious, or sumptuous entertainment, of which many guests partake; a banquet characterized by tempting variety and abundance of food.
Feast	 That which is partaken of, or shared in, with delight; something highly agreeable; entertainment.
Feasted	 of Feast
Feasting	 of Feast
Feast	 To eat sumptuously; to dine or sup on rich provisions, particularly in large companies, and on public festivals.
Feast	 To be highly gratified or delighted.
Feast	 To entertain with sumptuous provisions; to treat at the table bountifully; as, he was feasted by the king.
Feast	 To delight; to gratify; as, to feast the soul.
Feaster	 One who fares deliciously.
Feaster	 One who entertains magnificently.
Feastful	 Festive
Feat	 An act
Feat	 A striking act of strength, skill, or cunning; a trick; as, feats of horsemanship, or of dexterity.
Feat	 To form
Feat	 Dexterous in movements or service
Feat-bodied	 Having a feat or trim body.
Feateous	 Dexterous
Feather	 One of the peculiar dermal appendages, of several kinds, belonging to birds, as contour feathers, quills, and down.
Feather	 Kind; nature; species; -- from the proverbial phrase, "Birds of a feather," that is, of the same species.
Feather	 The fringe of long hair on the legs of the setter and some other dogs.
Feather	 A tuft of peculiar, long, frizzly hair on a horse.
Feather	 One of the fins or wings on the shaft of an arrow.
Feather	 A longitudinal strip projecting as a fin from an object, to strengthen it, or to enter a channel in another object and thereby prevent displacement sidwise but permit motion lengthwise; a spline.
Feather	 A thin wedge driven between the two semicylindrical parts of a divided plug in a hole bored in a stone, to rend the stone.
Feather	 The angular adjustment of an oar or paddle-wheel float, with reference to a horizontal axis, as it leaves or enters the water.
Feathered	 of Feather
Feathering.	 of Feather
Feather	 To furnish with a feather or feathers, as an arrow or a cap.
Feather	 To adorn, as with feathers; to fringe.
Feather	 To render light as a feather
Feather	 To enrich
Feather	 To tread, as a cock.
Feather	 To grow or form feathers; to become feathered; -- often with out; as, the birds are feathering out.
Feather	 To curdle when poured into another liquid, and float about in little flakes or "feathers;" as, the cream feathers
Feather	 To turn to a horizontal plane
Feather	 To have the appearance of a feather or of feathers
Feather-brained/	 Giddy
Feathered	 Clothed, covered, or fitted with (or as with) feathers or wings; as, a feathered animal; a feathered arrow.
Feathered	 Furnished with anything featherlike; ornamented; fringed; as, land feathered with trees.
Feathered	 Having a fringe of feathers, as the legs of certian birds; or of hairs, as the legs of a setter dog.
Feathered	 Having feathers; -- said of an arrow, when the feathers are of a tincture different from that of the shaft.
Feather-edge/	 The thin, new growth around the edge of a shell, of an oyster.
Feather-edge/	 Any thin, as on a board or a razor.
Feather-edged/	 Having a feather-edge; also, having one edge thinner than the other, as a board; -- in the United States, said only of stuff one edge of which is made as thin as practicable.
Feather-few/	 Feverfew.
Feather-foil	 An aquatic plant (Hottonia palustris), having finely divided leaves.
Feather-head	 A frivolous or featherbrained person.
Feather-headed	 Giddy
Feather-heeled	 Light-heeled
Featherness	 The state or condition of being feathery.
Feathering	 Same as Foliation.
Feathering	 The act of turning the blade of the oar, as it rises from the water in rowing, from a vertical to a horizontal position. See To feather an oar, under Feather, v. t.
Feathering	 A covering of feathers.
Featherless	 Destitute of feathers.
Featherly	 Like feathers.
Feather-pated	 Feather-headed
Feather-veined	 Having the veins (of a leaf) diverging from the two sides of a midrib.
Feathery	 Pertaining to, or resembling, feathers; covered with, or as with, feathers; as, feathery spray or snow.
Featly	 Neatly
Featness	 Skill
Feature	 The make, form, or outward appearance of a person; the whole turn or style of the body; esp., good appearance.
Feature	 The make, cast, or appearance of the human face, and especially of any single part of the face; a lineament. (pl.) The face, the countenance.
Feature	 The cast or structure of anything, or of any part of a thing, as of a landscape, a picture, a treaty, or an essay; any marked peculiarity or characteristic; as, one of the features of the landscape.
Feature	 A form
Featured	 Shaped
Featured	 Having features
Featureless	 Having no distinct or distinctive features.
Featurely	 Having features
Feazed	 of Feaze
Feazing	 of Feaze
Feaze	 To untwist; to unravel, as the end of a rope.
Feaze	 To beat; to chastise; also, to humble; to harass; to worry.
Feaze	 A state of anxious or fretful excitement
Feazings	 The unlaid or ragged end of a rope.
Febricitate	 To have a fever.
Febriculose	 Somewhat feverish.
Febrifacient	 Febrific.
Febrifacient	 That which causes fever.
Febriferous	 Causing fever; as, a febriferous locality.
Febrific	 Producing fever.
Febrifugal	 Having the quality of mitigating or curing fever.
Febrifuge	 A medicine serving to mitigate or remove fever.
Febrifuge	 Antifebrile.
Febrile	 Pertaining to fever; indicating fever, or derived from it; as, febrile symptoms; febrile action.
February	 The second month in the year, said to have been introduced into the Roman calendar by Numa. In common years this month contains twenty-eight days; in the bissextile, or leap year, it has twenty-nine days.
Februation	 Purification
Fecal	 relating to, or containing, dregs, feces, or ordeure; faecal.
Fecche	 To fetch.
Feces	 dregs
Fecial	 Pertaining to heralds, declarations of war, and treaties of peace; as, fecial law.
Fecifork	 The anal fork on which the larvae of certain insects carry their faeces.
Feckless	 Spiritless
Fecks	 A corruption of the word faith.
FeculAe	 of Fecula
Fecula	 Any pulverulent matter obtained from plants by simply breaking down the texture, washing with water, and subsidence.
Fecula	 The nutritious part of wheat
Fecula	 The green matter of plants
Feculence	 The state or quality of being feculent
Feculence	 That which is feculent
Feculency	 Feculence.
Feculent	 Foul with extraneous or impure substances
Fecund	 Fruitful in children
Fecundated	 of Fecundate
Fecundating	 of Fecundate
Fecundate	 To make fruitful or prolific.
Fecundate	 To render fruitful or prolific; to impregnate; as, in flowers the pollen fecundates the ovum through the stigma.
Fecundation	 The act by which, either in animals or plants, material prepared by the generative organs the female organism is brought in contact with matter from the organs of the male, so that a new organism results; impregnation; fertilization.
Fecundify	 To make fruitful
Fecundity	 The quality or power of producing fruit; fruitfulness; especially (Biol.), the quality in female organisms of reproducing rapidly and in great numbers.
Fecundity	 The power of germinating
Fecundity	 The power of bringing forth in abundance; fertility; richness of invention; as, the fecundity of God's creative power.
Fed	 imp. & p. p. of Feed.
Fedary	 A feodary.
Federal	 Pertaining to a league or treaty; derived from an agreement or covenant between parties, especially between nations; constituted by a compact between parties, usually governments or their representatives.
Federal	 Composed of states or districts which retain only a subordinate and limited sovereignty, as the Union of the United States, or the Sonderbund of Switzerland.
Federal	 Consisting or pertaining to such a government; as, the Federal Constitution; a Federal officer.
Federal	 Friendly or devoted to such a government; as, the Federal party. see Federalist.
Federal	 See Federalist.
Federalism	 the principles of Federalists or of federal union.
Federalist	 An advocate of confederation; specifically (Amer. Hist.), a friend of the Constitution of the United States at its formation and adoption; a member of the political party which favored the administration of president Washington.
Federalized	 of Federalize
Federalizing	 of Federalize
Federalize	 To unite in compact, as different States; to confederate for political purposes; to unite by or under the Federal Constitution.
Federary	 A partner
Federate	 United by compact, as sovereignties, states, or nations; joined in confederacy; leagued; confederate; as, federate nations.
Federation	 The act of uniting in a league
Federation	 A league
Federative	 Uniting in a league
Fedity	 Turpitude
Fee	 property
Fee	 Reward or compensation for services rendered or to be rendered; especially, payment for professional services, of optional amount, or fixed by custom or laws; charge; pay; perquisite; as, the fees of lawyers and physicians; the fees of office; clerk's fees; sheriff's fees; marriage fees, etc.
Fee	 A right to the use of a superior's land, as a stipend for services to be performed; also, the land so held; a fief.
Fee	 An estate of inheritance supposed to be held either mediately or immediately from the sovereign, and absolutely vested in the owner.
Fee	 An estate of inheritance belonging to the owner, and transmissible to his heirs, absolutely and simply, without condition attached to the tenure.
Feed	 of Fee
Feeing	 of Fee
Fee	 To reward for services performed, or to be performed; to recompense; to hire or keep in hire; hence, to bribe.
Feeble	 Deficient in physical strength
Feeble	 Wanting force, vigor, or efficiency in action or expression; not full, loud, bright, strong, rapid, etc.; faint; as, a feeble color; feeble motion.
Feeble	 To make feble
Feeble-minded	 Weak in intellectual power
Feebleness	 The quality or condition of being feeble
Feebly	 In a feeble manner.
Fed	 of Feed
Feeding	 of Feed
Feed	 To give food to
Feed	 To satisfy; grafity or minister to, as any sense, talent, taste, or desire.
Feed	 To fill the wants of; to supply with that which is used or wasted; as, springs feed ponds; the hopper feeds the mill; to feed a furnace with coal.
Feed	 To nourish, in a general sense; to foster, strengthen, develop, and guard.
Feed	 To graze; to cause to be cropped by feeding, as herbage by cattle; as, if grain is too forward in autumn, feed it with sheep.
Feed	 To give for food, especially to animals; to furnish for consumption; as, to feed out turnips to the cows; to feed water to a steam boiler.
Feed	 To supply (the material to be operated upon) to a machine; as, to feed paper to a printing press.
Feed	 To produce progressive operation upon or with (as in wood and metal working machines, so that the work moves to the cutting tool, or the tool to the work).
Feed	 To take food
Feed	 To subject by eating
Feed	 To be nourished, strengthened, or satisfied, as if by food.
Feed	 To place cattle to feed
Feed	 That which is eaten; esp., food for beasts; fodder; pasture; hay; grain, ground or whole; as, the best feed for sheep.
Feed	 A grazing or pasture ground.
Feed	 An allowance of provender given to a horse, cow, etc.; a meal; as, a feed of corn or oats.
Feed	 A meal, or the act of eating.
Feed	 The water supplied to steam boilers.
Feed	 The motion, or act, of carrying forward the stuff to be operated upon, as cloth to the needle in a sewing machine; or of producing progressive operation upon any material or object in a machine, as, in a turning lathe, by moving the cutting tool along or in the work.
Feed	 The supply of material to a machine, as water to a steam boiler, coal to a furnace, or grain to a run of stones.
Feed	 The mechanism by which the action of feeding is produced
Feeder	 One who, or that which, gives food or supplies nourishment; steward.
Feeder	 One who furnishes incentives
Feeder	 One who eats or feeds; specifically, an animal to be fed or fattened.
Feeder	 One who fattens cattle for slaughter.
Feeder	 A stream that flows into another body of water; a tributary; specifically (Hydraulic Engin.), a water course which supplies a canal or reservoir by gravitation or natural flow.
Feeder	 A branch railroad, stage line, or the like; a side line which increases the business of the main line.
Feeder	 A small lateral lode falling into the main lode or mineral vein.
Feeder	 A strong discharge of gas from a fissure
Feeder	 An auxiliary part of a machine which supplies or leads along the material operated upon.
Feeder	 A device for supplying steam boilers with water as needed.
Feeding	 the act of eating, or of supplying with food; the process of fattening.
Feeding	 That which is eaten
Feeding	 That which furnishes or affords food, especially for animals; pasture land.
Fee-faw-fum	 A nonsensical exclamation attributed to giants and ogres; hence, any expression calculated to impose upon the timid and ignorant.
Feejee	 See Fijian.
Felt	 of Feel
Feeling	 of Feel
Feel	 To perceive by the touch; to take cognizance of by means of the nerves of sensation distributed all over the body, especially by those of the skin; to have sensation excited by contact of (a thing) with the body or limbs.
Feel	 To touch; to handle; to examine by touching; as, feel this piece of silk; hence, to make trial of; to test; often with out.
Feel	 To perceive by the mind; to have a sense of; to experience; to be affected by; to be sensible of, or sensetive to; as, to feel pleasure; to feel pain.
Feel	 To take internal cognizance of
Feel	 To perceive
Feel	 To have perception by the touch, or by contact of anything with the nerves of sensation, especially those upon the surface of the body.
Feel	 To have the sensibilities moved or affected.
Feel	 To be conscious of an inward impression, state of mind, persuasion, physical condition, etc.; to perceive one's self to be; -- followed by an adjective describing the state, etc.; as, to feel assured, grieved, persuaded.
Feel	 To know with feeling; to be conscious; hence, to know certainly or without misgiving.
Feel	 To appear to the touch
Feel	 Feeling
Feel	 A sensation communicated by touching; impression made upon one who touches or handles; as, this leather has a greasy feel.
Feeler	 One who, or that which, feels.
Feeler	 One of the sense organs or certain animals (as insects), which are used in testing objects by touch and in searching for food; an antenna; a palp.
Feeler	 Anything, as a proposal, observation, etc., put forth or thrown out in order to ascertain the views of others; something tentative.
Feeling	 Possessing great sensibility; easily affected or moved; as, a feeling heart.
Feeling	 Expressive of great sensibility; attended by, or evincing, sensibility; as, he made a feeling representation of his wrongs.
Feeling	 The sense by which the mind, through certain nerves of the body, perceives external objects, or certain states of the body itself; that one of the five senses which resides in the general nerves of sensation distributed over the body, especially in its surface; the sense of touch; nervous sensibility to external objects.
Feeling	 An act or state of perception by the sense above described
Feeling	 The capacity of the soul for emotional states; a high degree of susceptibility to emotions or states of the sensibility not dependent on the body; as, a man of feeling; a man destitute of feeling.
Feeling	 Any state or condition of emotion; the exercise of the capacity for emotion; any mental state whatever; as, a right or a wrong feeling in the heart; our angry or kindly feelings; a feeling of pride or of humility.
Feeling	 That quality of a work of art which embodies the mental emotion of the artist, and is calculated to affect similarly the spectator.
Feelingly	 In a feeling manner
Feere	 A consort, husband or wife; a companion; a fere.
Feese	 the short run before a leap.
Feet	 See Foot.
Feet	 Fact
Feetless	 Destitute of feet; as, feetless birds.
Feeze	 To turn, as a screw.
Feeze	 To beat
Feeze	 Fretful excitement. [Obs.] See Feaze.
Fehling	 See Fehling's solution, under Solution.
Fehmic	 See Vehmic.
Feigned	 of Feign
Feigning	 of Feign
Feign	 To give a mental existence to, as to something not real or actual; to imagine; to invent; hence, to pretend; to form and relate as if true.
Feign	 To represent by a false appearance of; to pretend; to counterfeit; as, to feign a sickness.
Feign	 To dissemble
Feigned	 Not real or genuine
Feigner	 One who feigns or pretends.
Feigning	 That feigns
Feine	 To feign.
Feint	 Feigned
Feint	 That which is feigned
Feint	 A mock blow or attack on one part when another part is intended to be struck; -- said of certain movements in fencing, boxing, war, etc.
Feint	 To make a feint, or mock attack.
Feitsui	 The Chinese name for a highly prized variety of pale green jade. See Jade.
Feize	 See Feeze, v. t.
Felanders	 See Filanders.
Feldspar	 Alt. of Feldspath
Feldspath	 A name given to a group of minerals, closely related in crystalline form, and all silicates of alumina with either potash, soda, lime, or, in one case, baryta. They occur in crystals and crystalline masses, vitreous in luster, and breaking rather easily in two directions at right angles to each other, or nearly so. The colors are usually white or nearly white, flesh-red, bluish, or greenish.
Feldspathic	 Alt. of Feldspathose
Feldspathose	 Pertaining to, or consisting of, feldspar.
Fele	 Many.
Fe-licify	 To make happy
Felicitate	 Made very happy.
Felicitated	 of Felicitate
felicitating	 of Felicitate
Felicitate	 To make very happy
Felicitate	 To express joy or pleasure to
Felicitation	 The act of felicitating
Felicitous	 Characterized by felicity
Felicities	 of Felicity
Felicity	 The state of being happy
Felicity	 That which promotes happiness
Felicity	 A pleasing faculty or accomplishment; as, felicity in painting portraits, or in writing or talking.
Feline	 Catlike; of or pertaining to the genus Felis, or family Felidae; as, the feline race; feline voracity.
Feline	 Characteristic of cats; sly; stealthy; treacherous; as, a feline nature; feline manners.
Felis	 A genus of carnivorous mammals, including the domestic cat, the lion, tiger, panther, and similar animals.
Fell	 imp. of Fall.
Fell	 Cruel
Fell	 Eager
Fell	 Gall
Fell	 A skin or hide of a beast with the wool or hair on; a pelt; -- used chiefly in composition, as woolfell.
Fell	 A barren or rocky hill.
Fell	 A wild field
Felled	 of Fell
Felling	 of Fell
Fell	 To cause to fall
Fell	 The finer portions of ore which go through the meshes, when the ore is sorted by sifting.
Fell	 To sew or hem
Fell	 A form of seam joining two pieces of cloth, the edges being folded together and the stitches taken through both thicknesses.
Fell	 The end of a web, formed by the last thread of the weft.
Fellable	 Fit to be felled.
Fellahin	 of Fellah
Fellahs	 of Fellah
Fellah	 A peasant or cultivator of the soil among the Egyptians, Syrians, etc.
Feller	 One who, or that which, fells, knocks or cuts down; a machine for felling trees.
Feller	 An appliance to a sewing machine for felling a seam.
Felltare	 The fieldfare.
Felliflu-ous	 Flowing with gall.
Fellinic	 Of, relating to, or derived from, bile or gall; as, fellinic acid.
Fellmonger	 A dealer in fells or sheepskins, who separates the wool from the pelts.
Fellness	 The quality or state of being fell or cruel
Felloe	 See Felly.
Fellon	 Variant of Felon.
Fellow	 A companion
Fellow	 A man without good breeding or worth
Fellow	 An equal in power, rank, character, etc.
Fellow	 One of a pair, or of two things used together or suited to each other; a mate; the male.
Fellow	 A person
Fellow	 In the English universities, a scholar who is appointed to a foundation called a fellowship, which gives a title to certain perquisites and privileges.
Fellow	 In an American college or university, a member of the corporation which manages its business interests; also, a graduate appointed to a fellowship, who receives the income of the foundation.
Fellow	 A member of a literary or scientific society; as, a Fellow of the Royal Society.
Fellow	 To suit with
Fellow-commoner	 A student at Cambridge University, England, who commons, or dines, at the Fellow's table.
Fellow-creature	 One of the same race or kind
Fellowfeel	 To share through sympathy
Fellow-feeling	 Sympathy
Fellow-feeling	 Joint interest.
Fellowless	 Without fellow or equal
Fellowlike	 Like a companion
Fellowly	 Fellowlike.
Fellowship	 The state or relation of being or associate.
Fellowship	 Companionship of persons on equal and friendly terms
Fellowship	 A state of being together; companionship; partnership; association; hence, confederation; joint interest.
Fellowship	 Those associated with one, as in a family, or a society; a company.
Fellowship	 A foundation for the maintenance, on certain conditions, of a scholar called a fellow, who usually resides at the university.
Fellowship	 The rule for dividing profit and loss among partners; -- called also partnership, company, and distributive proportion.
Fellowshiped	 of Fellowship
Fellowshiping	 of Fellowship
Fellowship	 To acknowledge as of good standing, or in communion according to standards of faith and practice; to admit to Christian fellowship.
Felly	 In a fell or cruel manner
Fellies	 of Felly
Felly	 The exterior wooden rim, or a segment of the rim, of a wheel, supported by the spokes.
Felos-de-se	 of Felo-de-se
Felo-de-se	 One who deliberately puts an end to his own existence, or loses his life while engaged in the commission of an unlawful or malicious act; a suicide.
Felon	 A person who has committed a felony.
Felon	 A person guilty or capable of heinous crime.
Felon	 A kind of whitlow; a painful imflammation of the periosteum of a finger, usually of the last joint.
Felon	 Characteristic of a felon
Felonious	 Having the quality of felony; malignant; malicious; villainous; traitorous; perfidious; in a legal sense, done with intent to commit a crime; as, felonious homicide.
Felonous	 Wicked
Felonry	 A body of felons; specifically, the convict population of a penal colony.
Felonwort	 The bittersweet nightshade (Solanum Dulcamara). See Bittersweet.
Felonies	 of Felony
Felony	 An act on the part of the vassal which cost him his fee by forfeiture.
Felony	 An offense which occasions a total forfeiture either lands or goods, or both, at the common law, and to which capital or other punishment may be added, according to the degree of guilt.
Felony	 A heinous crime; especially, a crime punishable by death or imprisonment.
To	 compound a felony See under Compound, v. t.
Felsite	 A finegrained rock, flintlike in fracture, consisting essentially of orthoclase feldspar with occasional grains of quartz.
Felsitic	 relating to, composed of, or containing, felsite.
Felspar	 Alt. of Felspath
Felspath	 See Feldspar.
Felspathic	 See Feldspathic.
Felstone	 See Felsite.
Felt	 imp. & p. p. / a. from Feel.
Felt	 A cloth or stuff made of matted fibers of wool, or wool and fur, fulled or wrought into a compact substance by rolling and pressure, with lees or size, without spinning or weaving.
Felt	 A hat made of felt.
Felt	 A skin or hide
Felted	 of Felt
Felting	 of Felt
Felt	 To make into felt, or a feltike substance; to cause to adhere and mat together.
Felt	 To cover with, or as with, felt; as, to felt the cylinder of a steam emgine.
Felter	 To clot or mat together like felt.
Felting	 The material of which felt is made; also, felted cloth; also, the process by which it is made.
Felting	 The act of splitting timber by the felt grain.
Feltry	 See Felt, n.
Felucca	 A small, swift-sailing vessel, propelled by oars and lateen sails, -- once common in the Mediterranean.
Felwort	 A European herb (Swertia perennis) of the Gentian family.
Female	 An individual of the sex which conceives and brings forth young, or (in a wider sense) which has an ovary and produces ova.
Female	 A plant which produces only that kind of reproductive organs which are capable of developing into fruit after impregnation or fertilization
Female	 Belonging to the sex which conceives and gives birth to young, or (in a wider sense) which produces ova; not male.
Female	 Belonging to an individual of the female sex; characteristic of woman; feminine; as, female tenderness.
Female	 Having pistils and no stamens; pistillate; or, in cryptogamous plants, capable of receiving fertilization.
Female	 rhymes double rhymes, or rhymes (called in French feminine rhymes because they end in e weak, or feminine) in which two syllables, an accented and an unaccented one, correspond at the end of each line.
Female	 fern a common species of fern with large decompound fronds (Asplenium Filixfaemina), growing in many countries; lady fern.
Femalist	 A gallant.
Femalize	 To make, or to describe as, female or feminine.
Feme	 A woman.
Femeral	 See Femerell.
Femerell	 A lantern, or louver covering, placed on a roof, for ventilation or escape of smoke.
Feminal	 Feminine.
Feminality	 Feminity.
Feminate	 Feminine.
Femineity	 Womanliness
Feminine	 Of or pertaining to a woman, or to women; characteristic of a woman; womanish; womanly.
Feminine	 Having the qualities of a woman; becoming or appropriate to the female sex; as, in a good sense, modest, graceful, affectionate, confiding; or, in a bad sense, weak, nerveless, timid, pleasure-loving, effeminate.
Feminine	 rhyme See Female rhyme, under Female, a.
Feminine	 A woman.
Feminine	 Any one of those words which are the appellations of females, or which have the terminations usually found in such words; as, actress, songstress, abbess, executrix.
Femininely	 In a feminine manner.
Feminineness	 The quality of being feminine
Femininity	 The quality or nature of the female sex
Femininity	 The female form.
Feminity	 Womanliness
Feminization	 The act of feminizing, or the state of being feminized.
Feminize	 To make womanish or effeminate.
Feminye	 The people called Amazons.
Femme	 A woman. See Feme, n.
Femoral	 Pertaining to the femur or thigh; as, the femoral artery.
Femora	 of Femur
Femur	 The thigh bone.
Femur	 The proximal segment of the hind limb containing the thigh bone
Fen	 Low land overflowed, or covered wholly or partially with water, but producing sedge, coarse grasses, or other aquatic plants; boggy land; moor; marsh.
Fence	 That which fends off attack or danger
Fence	 An inclosure about a field or other space, or about any object; especially, an inclosing structure of wood, iron, or other material, intended to prevent intrusion from without or straying from within.
Fence	 A projection on the bolt, which passes through the tumbler gates in locking and unlocking.
Fence	 Self-defense by the use of the sword; the art and practice of fencing and sword play; hence, skill in debate and repartee. See Fencing.
Fence	 A receiver of stolen goods, or a place where they are received.
Fencing	  
Fence	 To fend off danger from
Fence	 To inclose with a fence or other protection
Fence	 To make a defense; to guard one's self of anything, as against an attack; to give protection or security, as by a fence.
Fence	 To practice the art of attack and defense with the sword or with the foil, esp. with the smallsword, using the point only.
Fence	 Hence, to fight or dispute in the manner of fencers, that is, by thrusting, guarding, parrying, etc.
Fenceful	 Affording defense
Fenceless	 Without a fence
Fencer	 One who fences
Fenci-ble	 Capable of being defended, or of making or affording defense.
Fencible	 A soldier enlisted for home service only
Fencing	 The art or practice of attack and defense with the sword, esp. with the smallsword. See Fence, v. i., 2.
Fencing	 Disputing or debating in a manner resembling the art of fencers.
Fencing	 The materials used for building fences.
Fencing	 The act of building a fence.
Fencing	 The aggregate of the fences put up for inclosure or protection; as, the fencing of a farm.
Fen	 cricket The mole cricket.
Fend	 A fiend.
Fended	 of Fend
Fending	 of Fend
Fend	 To keep off; to prevent from entering or hitting; to ward off; to shut out; -- often with off; as, to fend off blows.
Fend	 To act on the defensive, or in opposition; to resist; to parry; to shift off.
Fender	 One who or that which defends or protects by warding off harm
Fender	 A screen to prevent coals or sparks of an open fire from escaping to the floor.
Fender	 Anything serving as a cushion to lessen the shock when a vessel comes in contact with another vessel or a wharf.
Fender	 A screen to protect a carriage from mud thrown off the wheels: also, a splashboard.
Fender	 Anything set up to protect an exposed angle, as of a house, from damage by carriage wheels.
Fendliche	 Fiendlike.
Fenerate	 To put money to usury
Feneration	 The act of fenerating
Fenes-tella	 Any small windowlike opening or recess, esp. one to show the relics within an altar, or the like.
Fenestrae	 of Fenestra
Fenestra	 A small opening; esp., one of the apertures, closed by membranes, between the tympanum and internal ear.
Fenestral	 Pertaining to a window or to windows.
Fenestral	 Of or pertaining to a fenestra.
Fenestral	 A casement or window sash, closed with cloth or paper instead of glass.
Fenestrate	 Having numerous openings; irregularly reticulated; as, fenestrate membranes; fenestrate fronds.
Fenestrate	 Having transparent spots, as the wings of certain butterflies.
Fenestrated	 Having windows
Fenestrated	 Same as Fenestrate.
Fenestration	 The arrangement and proportioning of windows; -- used by modern writers for the decorating of an architectural composition by means of the window (and door) openings, their ornaments, and proportions.
Fenestration	 The state or condition of being fenestrated.
Fenestrule	 One of the openings in a fenestrated structure.
Fengite	 A kind of marble or alabaster, sometimes used for windows on account of its transparency.
Fenian	 A member of a secret organization, consisting mainly of Irishment, having for its aim the overthrow of English rule in ireland.
Fenian	 Pertaining to Fenians or to Fenianism.
Fenianism	 The principles, purposes, and methods of the Fenians.
Fenks	 The refuse whale blubber, used as a manure, and in the manufacture of Prussian blue.
Fennec	 A small, African, foxlike animal (Vulpes zerda) of a pale fawn color, remarkable for the large size of its ears.
Fennel	 A perennial plant of the genus Faeniculum (F. vulgare), having very finely divided leaves. It is cultivated in gardens for the agreeable aromatic flavor of its seeds.
Fennish	 Abounding in fens
Fenny	 Pertaining to, or inhabiting, a fen; abounding in fens; swampy; boggy.
Fenowed	 Corrupted
Fensi-ble	 Fencible.
Fen-sucked	 Sucked out of marches.
Fenugreek	 A plant (trigonella Foenum Graecum) cultivated for its strong-smelling seeds, which are
Feod	 A feud. See 2d Feud.
Feodal	 Feudal. See Feudal.
Feodality	 Feudal tenure
Feodary	 An accomplice.
Feodary	 An ancient officer of the court of wards.
Feodatory	 See Feudatory.
Feoffed	 of Feoff
Feoffing	 of Feoff
Feoff	 To invest with a fee or feud
Feoff	 A fief. See Fief.
Feoffee	 The person to whom a feoffment is made
Feoffment	 The grant of a feud or fee.
Feoffment	 A gift or conveyance in fee of land or other corporeal hereditaments, accompanied by actual delivery of possession.
Feoffment	 The instrument or deed by which corporeal hereditaments are conveyed.
Feofor	 Alt. of Feoffer
Feoffer	 One who enfeoffs or grants a fee.
Fer	 Far.
Feracious	 Fruitful
Feracity	 The state of being feracious or fruitful.
Ferae	 A group of mammals which formerly included the Carnivora, Insectivora, Marsupialia, and lemurs, but is now often restricted to the Carnivora.
Ferae	 naturae Of a wild nature; -- applied to animals, as foxes, wild ducks, etc., in which no one can claim property.
Feral	 Wild; untamed; ferine; not domesticated; -- said of beasts, birds, and plants.
Feral	 Funereal
Ferde	 imp. of Fare.
Fer-de-lance	 A large, venomous serpent (Trigonocephalus lanceolatus) of Brazil and the West Indies. It is allied to the rattlesnake, but has no rattle.
Ferding	 A measure of land mentioned in Domesday Book. It is supposed to have consisted of a few acres only.
Ferdness	 Fearfulness.
Fere	 A mate or companion
Fere	 Fierce.
Fere	 Fire.
Fere	 Fear.
Fere	 To fear.
Feretory	 A portable bier or shrine, variously adorned, used for containing relics of saints.
Ferforth	 Far forth.
Ferforthly	 Ferforth.
Fergusonite	 A mineral of a brownish black color, essentially a tantalo-niobate of yttrium, erbium, and cerium; -- so called after Robert Ferguson.
Feriae	 of Feria
Feria	 A week day, esp. a day which is neither a festival nor a fast.
Ferial	 Same as Feria.
Ferial	 Of or pertaining to holidays.
Ferial	 Belonging to any week day, esp. to a day that is neither a festival nor a fast.
Feriation	 The act of keeping holiday
Ferie	 A holiday.
Ferier	 compar. of Fere, fierce.
Ferine	 Wild; untamed; savage; as, lions, tigers, wolves, and bears are ferine beasts.
Ferine	 A wild beast
Feringee	 The name given to Europeans by the Hindos.
Ferity	 Wildness
Ferly	 Singular
Ferly	 A wonder
Fermacy	 Medicine
Ferm	 Alt. of Ferme
Ferme	 Rent for a farm; a farm; also, an abode; a place of residence; as, he let his land to ferm.
Ferment	 That which causes fermentation, as yeast, barm, or fermenting beer.
Ferment	 Intestine motion
Ferment	 A gentle internal motion of the constituent parts of a fluid
Fermented	 of Ferment
Fermenting	 of Ferment
Ferment	 To cause ferment of fermentation in
Ferment	 To undergo fermentation; to be in motion, or to be excited into sensible internal motion, as the constituent oarticles of an animal or vegetable fluid; to work; to effervesce.
Ferment	 To be agitated or excited by violent emotions.
Fermentability	 Capability of fermentation.
Fermentable	 Capable of fermentation; as, cider and other vegetable liquors are fermentable.
Fermental	 Fermentative.
Fermentation	 The process of undergoing an effervescent change, as by the action of yeast; in a wider sense (Physiol. Chem.), the transformation of an organic substance into new compounds by the action of a ferment, either formed or unorganized. It differs in kind according to the nature of the ferment which causes it.
Fermentation	 A state of agitation or excitement, as of the intellect or the feelings.
Fermentative	 Causing, or having power to cause, fermentation; produced by fermentation; fermenting; as, a fermentative process.
Fermerere	 The officer in a religious house who had the care of the infirmary.
Fermillet	 A buckle or clasp.
Fern	 Long ago.
Fern	 Ancient; old. [Obs.] "Pilgrimages to . . . ferne halwes." [saints].
Fern	 An order of cryptogamous plants, the Filices, which have their fructification on the back of the fronds or leaves. They are usually found in humid soil, sometimes grow epiphytically on trees, and in tropical climates often attain a gigantic size.
Fernery	 A place for rearing ferns.
Fernticle	 A freckle on the skin, resembling the seed of fern.
Ferny	 Abounding in ferns.
Ferocious	 Fierce; savage; wild; indicating cruelty; ravenous; rapacious; as, ferocious look or features; a ferocious lion.
Ferocity	 Savage wildness or fierceness; fury; cruelty; as, ferocity of countenance.
Feroher	 A symbol of the solar deity, found on monuments exhumed in Babylon, Nineveh, etc.
Ferous	 Wild
-ferous	 A suffix signifying bearing, producing, yielding; as, auriferous, yielding gold; chyliferous, producing chyle.
Ferrandine	 A stuff made of silk and wool.
Ferrara	 A sword bearing the mark of one of the Ferrara family of Italy. These swords were highly esteemed in England and Scotland in the 16th and 17th centuries.
Ferrarese	 Pertaining to Ferrara, in Italy.
Ferrarese	 A citizen of Ferrara; collectively, the inhabitants of Ferrara.
Ferrary	 The art of working in iron.
Ferrate	 A salt of ferric acid.
Ferre	 Alt. of Ferrer
Ferrer	 compar. of Fer.
Ferreous	 Partaking of, made of, or pertaining to, iron; like iron.
Ferrest	 superl. of Fer.
Ferret	 An animal of the Weasel family (Mustela / Putorius furo), about fourteen inches in length, of a pale yellow or white color, with red eyes. It is a native of Africa, but has been domesticated in Europe. Ferrets are used to drive rabbits and rats out of their holes.
Ferreted	 of Ferret
Ferreting	 of Ferret
Ferret	 To drive or hunt out of a lurking place, as a ferret does the cony; to search out by patient and sagacious efforts; -- often used with out; as, to ferret out a secret.
Ferret	 A kind of narrow tape, usually made of woolen; sometimes of cotton or silk; -- called also ferreting.
Ferret	 The iron used for trying the melted glass to see if is fit to work, and for shaping the rings at the mouths of bottles.
Ferreter	 One who ferrets.
Ferret-eye	 The spur-winged goose
Ferretto	 Copper sulphide, used to color glass.
Ferri-	 A combining form indicating ferric iron as an ingredient; as, ferricyanide.
Ferriage	 The price or fare to be paid for passage at a ferry.
Ferric	 Pertaining to, derived from, or containing iron. Specifically (Chem.), denoting those compounds in which iron has a higher valence than in the ferrous compounds; as, ferric oxide; ferric acid.
Ferricyanate	 A salt of ferricyanic acid
Ferricyanic	 Pertaining to, or derived from, a ferricyanide.
Ferricyanide	 One of a complex series of double cyanides of ferric iron and some other base.
Ferrier	 A ferryman.
Ferriferous	 Producing or yielding iron.
Ferriprussiate	 A ferricyanate
Ferriprussic	 Ferricyanic.
Ferro-	 A prefix, or combining form, indicating ferrous iron as an ingredient; as, ferrocyanide.
Ferrocalcite	 Limestone containing a large percentage of iron carbonate, and hence turning brown on exposure.
Ferrocyanate	 A salt of ferrocyanic acid
Ferrocyanic	 Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, a ferrocyanide.
Ferrocyanide	 One of a series of complex double cyanides of ferrous iron and some other base.
Ferroprussiate	 A ferrocyanate
Ferroprussic	 Ferrocyanic.
Ferroso-	 See Ferro-.
Ferrotype	 A photographic picture taken on an iron plate by a collodion process
Ferrous	 Pertaining to, or derived from, iron; -- especially used of compounds of iron in which the iron has its lower valence; as, ferrous sulphate.
Ferruginated	 Having the color or properties of the rust of iron.
Ferrugineous	 Ferruginous.
Ferruginous	 Partaking of iron
Ferruginous	 Resembling iron rust in appearance or color; brownish red, or yellowish red.
Ferrugo	 A disease of plants caused by fungi, commonly called the rust, from its resemblance to iron rust in color.
Ferrule	 A ring or cap of metal put round a cane, tool, handle, or other similar object, to strengthen it, or prevent splitting and wearing.
Ferrule	 A bushing for expanding the end of a flue to fasten it tightly in the tube plate, or for partly filling up its mouth.
Ferruminate	 To solder or unite, as metals.
Ferrumination	 The soldering ir uniting of me/ als.
Ferried	 of Ferry
Ferrying	 of Ferry
Ferry	 To carry or transport over a river, strait, or other narrow water, in a boat.
Ferry	 To pass over water in a boat or by a ferry.
Ferries	 of Ferry
Ferry	 A place where persons or things are carried across a river, arm of the sea, etc., in a ferryboat.
Ferry	 A vessel in which passengers and goods are conveyed over narrow waters
Ferry	 A franchise or right to maintain a vessel for carrying passengers and freight across a river, bay, etc., charging tolls.
Ferryboat	 A vessel for conveying passengers, merchandise, etc., across streams and other narrow waters.
Ferrymen	 of Ferryman
Ferryman	 One who maintains or attends a ferry.
Fers	 Fierce.
Ferthe	 Fourth.
Fertile	 Producing fruit or vegetation in abundance; fruitful; able to produce abundantly; prolific; fecund; productive; rich; inventive; as, fertile land or fields; a fertile mind or imagination.
Fertile	 Capable of producing fruit; fruit-bearing; as, fertile flowers.
Fertile	 Containing pollen
Fertile	 produced in abundance
Fertilely	 In a fertile or fruitful manner.
fertileness	 Fertility.
Fertilitate	 To fertilize
Fertility	 The state or quality of being fertile or fruitful; fruitfulness; productiveness; fecundity; richness; abundance of resources; fertile invention; quickness; readiness; as, the fertility of soil, or of imagination.
Fertilization	 The act or process of rendering fertile.
Fertilization	 The act of fecundating or impregnating animal or vegetable germs; esp., the process by which in flowers the pollen renders the ovule fertile, or an analogous process in flowerless plants; fecundation; impregnation.
Fertilized	 of Fertilize
Fertilizing	 of Fertilize
Fertilize	 To make fertile or enrich; to supply with nourishment for plants; to make fruitful or productive; as, to fertilize land, soil, ground, and meadows.
Fertilize	 To fecundate; as, to fertilize flower.
Fertilizer	 One who fertilizes; the agent that carries the fertilizing principle, as a moth to an orchid.
Fertilizer	 That which renders fertile; a general name for commercial manures, as guano, phosphate of lime, etc.
Ferula	 A ferule.
Ferula	 The imperial scepter in the Byzantine or Eastern Empire.
Ferulaceous	 Pertaining to reeds and canes; having a stalk like a reed; as, ferulaceous plants.
Ferular	 A ferule.
Ferule	 A flat piece of wood, used for striking, children, esp. on the hand, in punishment.
Feruled	 of Ferule
Feruling	 of Ferule
Ferule	 To punish with a ferule.
Ferulic	 Pertaining to, or derived from, asafetida (Ferula asafoetida); as, ferulic acid.
Fervence	 Heat
Fervency	 The state of being fervent or warm
Fervent	 Hot; glowing; boiling; burning; as, a fervent summer.
Fervent	 Warm in feeling
Fervescent	 Growing hot.
Fervid	 Very hot
Fervid	 Ardent
Fervor	 Heat
Fervor	 Intensity of feeling or expression
Fescennine	 Pertaining to, or resembling, the Fescennines.
Fescennine	 A style of low, scurrilous, obscene poetry originating in fescennia.
Fescue	 A straw, wire, stick, etc., used chiefly to point out letters to children when learning to read.
Fescue	 An instrument for playing on the harp
Fescue	 The style of a dial.
Fescue	 A grass of the genus Festuca.
Fescued	 of Fescue
Fescuing	 of Fescue
Fescue	 To use a fescue, or teach with a fescue.
Fesels	 See Phasel.
Fess	 Alt. of Fesse
Fesse	 A band drawn horizontally across the center of an escutcheon, and containing in breadth the third part of it; one of the nine honorable ordinaries.
Fessitude	 Weariness.
Fesswise	 In the manner of fess.
Fest	 The fist.
Fest	 Alt. of Feste
Feste	 A feast.
Festal	 Of or pertaining to a holiday or a feast
Festally	 Joyously
Festennine	 A fescennine.
Festered	 of Fester
Festering	 of Fester
Fester	 To generate pus; to become imflamed and suppurate; as, a sore or a wound festers.
Fester	 To be inflamed; to grow virulent, or malignant; to grow in intensity; to rankle.
Fester	 To cause to fester or rankle.
Fester	 A small sore which becomes inflamed and discharges corrupt matter
Fester	 A festering or rankling.
Festerment	 A festering.
Festeye	 To feast
Festinate	 Hasty
Festination	 Haste
Festival	 Pertaining to a fest
Festi-val	 A time of feasting or celebration; an anniversary day of joy, civil or religious.
Festive	 Pertaining to, or becoming, a feast; festal; joyous; gay; mirthful; sportive.
Festivities	 of Festivity
Festivity	 The condition of being festive
Festivity	 A festival
Festivous	 Pertaining to a feast
Festlich	 Festive
Festoon	 A garland or wreath hanging in a depending curve, used in decoration for festivals, etc.; anything arranged in this way.
Festoon	 A carved ornament consisting of flowers, and leaves, intermixed or twisted together, wound with a ribbon, and hanging or depending in a natural curve. See Illust. of Bucranium.
Festooned	 of Festoon
Festooning	 of Festoon
Festoon	 To form in festoons, or to adorn with festoons.
Festoony	 Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, festoons.
Festucine	 Of a straw color
Festucous	 Formed or consisting of straw.
Festue	 A straw
Fet	 A piece.
Fet	 To fetch.
Fet	 Fetched.
Fetal	 Pertaining to, or connected with, a fetus; as, fetal circulation; fetal membranes.
Fetation	 The formation of a fetus in the womb
Fetched	 of Fetch
Fetching	 of Fetch
Fetch	 To bear toward the person speaking, or the person or thing from whose point of view the action is contemplated; to go and bring; to get.
Fetch	 To obtain as price or equivalent
Fetch	 To recall from a swoon; to revive; -- sometimes with to; as, to fetch a man to.
Fetch	 To reduce
Fetch	 To bring to accomplishment; to achieve; to make; to perform, with certain objects; as, to fetch a compass; to fetch a leap; to fetch a sigh.
Fetch	 To bring or get within reach by going
Fetch	 To cause to come
fetch	 To bring one's self; to make headway; to veer; as, to fetch about; to fetch to windward.
Fetch	 A stratagem by which a thing is indirectly brought to pass, or by which one thing seems intended and another is done; a trick; an artifice.
Fetch	 The apparation of a living person
Fethcer	 One wo fetches or brings.
Fete	 A feat.
Fete	 Feet.
Fete	 A festival.
Feted	 of Fete
Feting	 of Fete
Fete	 To feast
Fetich	 Alt. of Fetish
Fetish	 A material object supposed among certain African tribes to represent in such a way, or to be so connected with, a supernatural being, that the possession of it gives to the possessor power to control that being.
Fetish	 Any object to which one is excessively devoted.
fetichism	 Alt. of Fetishism
Fetishism	 The doctrine or practice of belief in fetiches.
Fetishism	 Excessive devotion to one object or one idea
Fetichist	 Alt. of Fetishist
Fetishist	 A believer in fetiches.
Fetichistic	 Alt. of Fetishistic
Fetishistic	 Pertaining to, or involving, fetichism.
Feticide	 The act of killing the fetus in the womb
Feticism	 See Fetichism.
Fetid	 Having an offensive smell
Fetidity	 Fetidness.
Fetidness	 The quality or state of being fetid.
Fetiferous	 Producing young, as animals.
Fetis	 Neat
Fetisely	 Neatly
Fetish	 Alt. of Fetishistic
Fetishism	 Alt. of Fetishistic
Fetishistic	 See Fetich, n., Fetichism, n., Fetichistic, a.
Fetlock	 The cushionlike projection, bearing a tuft of long hair, on the back side of the leg above the hoof of the horse and similar animals. Also, the joint of the limb at this point (between the great pastern bone and the metacarpus), or the tuft of hair.
Fetor	 A strong, offensive smell; stench; fetidness.
Fette	 of Fette
Fet	 of Fette
Fette	 To fetch.
fetters	 of Fetter
Fetter	 A chain or shackle for the feet; a chain by which an animal is confined by the foot, either made fast or disabled from free and rapid motion; a bond; a shackle.
Fetter	 Anything that confines or restrains
Fetter	 To put fetters upon
Fetter	 To restrain from motion; to impose restraints on; to confine; to enchain; as, fettered by obligations.
Fettered	 Seeming as if fettered, as the feet of certain animals which bend backward, and appear unfit for walking.
Fetterer	 One who fetters.
Fetterless	 Free from fetters.
Fettle	 To repair
Fettle	 To cover or line with a mixture of ore, cinders, etc., as the hearth of a puddling furnace.
Fettle	 To make preparations
Fettle	 The act of fettling.
Fettling	 A mixture of ore, cinders, etc., used to line the hearth of a puddling furnace.
Fettling	 The operation of shaving or smoothing the surface of undried clay ware.
Fetuous	 Neat
Fetuses	 of Fetus
Fetus	 The young or embryo of an animal in the womb, or in the egg; often restricted to the later stages in the development of viviparous and oviparous animals, embryo being applied to the earlier stages.
Fetwah	 A written decision of a Turkish mufti on some point of law.
Feu	 A free and gratuitous right to lands made to one for service to be performed by him; a tenure where the vassal, in place of military services, makes a return in grain or in money.
Feuar	 One who holds a feu.
Feud	 A combination of kindred to avenge injuries or affronts, done or offered to any of their blood, on the offender and all his race.
Feud	 A contention or quarrel; especially, an inveterate strife between families, clans, or parties; deadly hatred; contention satisfied only by bloodshed.
Feud	 A stipendiary estate in land, held of superior, by service; the right which a vassal or tenant had to the lands or other immovable thing of his lord, to use the same and take the profists thereof hereditarily, rendering to his superior such duties and services as belong to military tenure, etc., the property of the soil always remaining in the lord or superior; a fief; a fee.
Feudal	 Of or pertaining to feuds, fiefs, or feels; as, feudal rights or services; feudal tenures.
Feudal	 Consisting of, or founded upon, feuds or fiefs; embracing tenures by military services; as, the feudal system.
Feudalism	 The feudal system
Feudalist	 An upholder of feudalism.
Feudality	 The state or quality of being feudal
Fedaliza/tion	 The act of reducing to feudal tenure.
Feudalized	 of Feudalize
Feudalizing	 of Feudalize
Feudalize	 To reduce toa feudal tenure
Feudally	 In a feudal manner.
Feudary	 Held by, or pertaining to, feudal tenure.
Feudary	 A tenant who holds his lands by feudal service
Feudary	 A feodary. See Feodary.
Feudataty	 See Feudatory.
Feudatories	 of Feudatory
Feudatory	 A tenant or vassal who held his lands of a superior on condition of feudal service
Feudtory	 Held from another on some conditional tenure; as, a feudatory title.
Feu	 de joie A fire kindled in a public place in token of joy
Feudist	 A writer on feuds
Feuillants	 A reformed branch of the Bernardines, founded in 1577 at Feuillans, near Toulouse, in France.
Feuillemort	 Having the color of a faded leaf.
Feuilleton	 A part of a French newspaper (usually the bottom of the page), devoted to light literature, criticism, etc.; also, the article or tale itself, thus printed.
Feuilltonist	 A writer of feuilletons.
feuter	 To set close; to fix in rest, as a spear.
Feuterer	 A dog keeper.
Fever	 A diseased state of the system, marked by increased heat, acceleration of the pulse, and a general derangement of the functions, including usually, thirst and loss of appetite. Many diseases, of which fever is the most prominent symptom, are denominated fevers; as, typhoid fever; yellow fever.
Fever	 Excessive excitement of the passions in consequence of strong emotion; a condition of great excitement; as, this quarrel has set my blood in a fever.
Fevered	 of Fever
Fevering	 of Fever
Fever	 To put into a fever; to affect with fever; as, a fevered lip.
Feveret	 A slight fever.
Feverfew	 A perennial plant (Pyrethrum, / Chrysanthemum, Parthenium) allied to camomile, having finely divided leaves and white blossoms; -- so named from its supposed febrifugal qualities.
Feverish	 Having a fever; suffering from, or affected with, a moderate degree of fever; showing increased heat and thirst; as, the patient is feverish.
Feverish	 Indicating, or pertaining to, fever; characteristic of a fever; as, feverish symptoms.
Feverish	 Hot
Feverish	 Disordered as by fever; excited; restless; as, the feverish condition of the commercial world.
Feverous	 Affected with fever or ague
Feverous	 Pertaining to, or having the nature of, fever; as, a feverous pulse.
Feverous	 Having the tendency to produce fever; as, a feverous disposition of the year.
Feverously	 Feverishly.
Feverwort	 See Fever root, under Fever.
Fevery	 Feverish.
Few	 Not many; small, limited, or confined in number; -- indicating a small portion of units or individuals constituing a whole; often, by ellipsis of a noun, a few people.
Fewel	 Fuel.
Fewmet	 See Fumet.
Fewness	 The state of being few
Fewness	 Brevity
Fey	 Fated
Fey	 Faith.
Fey	 To cleanse
Feyne	 To feign.
Feyre	 A fair or market.
Fez	 A felt or cloth cap, usually red and having a tassel, -- a variety of the tarboosh. See Tarboosh.
Fiacre	 A kind of French hackney coach.
Fiance	 To betroth
Fiance	 A betrothed man.
Fiancee	 A betrothed woman.
Fiants	 The dung of the fox, wolf, boar, or badger.
Fiar	 One in whom the property of an estate is vested, subject to the estate of a life renter.
Fiar	 The price of grain, as legally fixed, in the counties of Scotland, for the current year.
Fiascoes	 of Fiasco
Fiasco	 A complete or ridiculous failure, esp. of a musical performance, or of any pretentious undertaking.
Fiat	 An authoritative command or order to do something
Fiat	 A warrant of a judge for certain processes.
Fiat	 An authority for certain proceedings given by the Lord Chancellor's signature.
Fiaunt	 Commission
Fib	 A falsehood
Fibbed	 of Fib
Fibbing	 of Fib
Fib	 To speak falsely.
Fib	 To tell a fib to.
Fibber	 One who tells fibs.
Fiber	 Alt. of Fibre
Fibre	 One of the delicate, threadlike portions of which the tissues of plants and animals are in part constituted; as, the fiber of flax or of muscle.
Fibre	 Any fine, slender thread, or threadlike substance; as, a fiber of spun glass; especially, one of the slender rootlets of a plant.
Fibre	 Sinew; strength; toughness; as, a man of real fiber.
Fibre	 A general name for the raw material, such as cotton, flax, hemp, etc., used in textile manufactures.
Fibered	 Alt. of Fibred
Fibred	 Having fibers
Fiber-faced	 Alt. of Fibre-faced
Fibre-faced	 Having a visible fiber embodied in the surface of; -- applied esp. to a kind of paper for checks, drafts, etc.
Fiberless	 Alt. of Fibreless
Fibreless	 Having no fibers
Fibriform	 Having the form of a fiber or fibers
Fibril	 A small fiber
FibrillAe	 of Fibrilla
Fibrilla	 A minute thread of fiber, as one of the fibrous elements of a muscular fiber; a fibril.
Fibrillar	 Of or pertaining to fibrils or fibers; as, fibrillar twitchings.
Fibrillary	 Of of pertaining to fibrils.
Fibrillated	 Furnished with fibrils
Fibrillation	 The state of being reduced to fibers.
Fibrillose	 Covered with hairlike appendages, as the under surface of some lichens; also, composed of little strings or fibers; as, fibrillose appendages.
Fibrillous	 Pertaining to, or composed of, fibers.
Fibrin	 A white, albuminous, fibrous substance, formed in the coagulation of the blood either by decomposition of fibrinogen, or from the union of fibrinogen and paraglobulin which exist separately in the blood. It is insoluble in water, but is readily digestible in gastric and pancreatic juice.
Fibrin	 The white, albuminous mass remaining after washing lean beef or other meat with water until all coloring matter is removed; the fibrous portion of the muscle tissue; flesh fibrin.
Fibrin	 An albuminous body, resembling animal fibrin in composition, found in cereal grains and similar seeds; vegetable fibrin.
Fibrination	 The state of acquiring or having an excess of fibrin.
Fibrine	 Belonging to the fibers of plants.
Fibrinogen	 An albuminous substance existing in the blood, and in other animal fluids, which either alone or with fibrinoplastin or paraglobulin forms fibrin, and thus causes coagulation.
Fibrinogenous	 Possessed of properties similar to fibrinogen
Fibrinoplastic	 Like fibrinoplastin
Fibrinoplastin	 An albuminous substance, existing in the blood, which in combination with fibrinogen forms fibrin; -- called also paraglobulin.
Fibrinous	 Having, or partaking of the properties of, fibrin; as, fibrious exudation.
Fibrocartilage	 A kind of cartilage with a fibrous matrix and approaching fibrous connective tissue in structure.
Fibrochondrosteal	 Partly fibrous, partly cartilaginous, and partly osseous.
Fibroid	 Resembling or forming fibrous tissue; made up of fibers; as, fibroid tumors.
Fibroid	 A fibroid tumor
Fibroin	 A variety of gelatin; the chief ingredient of raw silk, extracted as a white amorphous mass.
Fibrolite	 A silicate of alumina, of fibrous or columnar structure. It is like andalusite in composition; -- called also sillimanite, and bucholizite.
Fibroma	 A tumor consisting mainly of fibrous tissue, or of same modification of such tissue.
Fibrospongiae	 An order of sponges having a fibrous skeleton, including the commercial sponges.
Fibrous	 Containing, or consisting of, fibers; as, the fibrous coat of the cocoanut; the fibrous roots of grasses.
Fibrovascular	 Containing woody fiber and ducts, as the stems of all flowering plants and ferns; -- opposed to cellular.
Fibster	 One who tells fibs.
FibulAe	 of Fibula
Fibula	 A brooch, clasp, or buckle.
Fibula	 The outer and usually the smaller of the two bones of the leg, or hind limb, below the knee.
Fibula	 A needle for sewing up wounds.
Fibu-lar	 Pertaining to the fibula.
Fibularia	 of Fibulare
Fibulare	 The bone or cartilage of the tarsus, which articulates with the fibula, and corresponds to the calcaneum in man and most mammals.
Fice	 A small dog; -- written also fise, fyce, fiste, etc.
Fiche	 See FitchE.
Ficttelite	 A white crystallized mineral resin from the Fichtelgebirge, Bavaria.
Fichu	 A light cape, usually of lace, worn by women, to cover the neck and throat, and extending to the shoulders.
Fickle	 Not fixed or firm; liable to change; unstable; of a changeable mind; not firm in opinion or purpose; inconstant; capricious; as, Fortune's fickle wheel.
Fickleness	 The quality of being fickle
Fickly	 In a fickle manner.
Ficoes	 of Fico
Fico	 A fig; an insignificant trifle, no more than the snap of one's thumb; a sign of contempt made by the fingers, expressing. A fig for you.
Fictile	 Molded, or capable of being molded, into form by art; relating to pottery or to molding in any soft material.
Fiction	 The act of feigning, inventing, or imagining; as, by a mere fiction of the mind.
Fiction	 That which is feigned, invented, or imagined; especially, a feigned or invented story, whether oral or written. Hence: A story told in order to deceive; a fabrication; -- opposed to fact, or reality.
Fiction	 Fictitious literature; comprehensively, all works of imagination; specifically, novels and romances.
Fiction	 An assumption of a possible thing as a fact, irrespective of the question of its truth.
Fiction	 Any like assumption made for convenience, as for passing more rapidly over what is not disputed, and arriving at points really at issue.
Fictional	 Pertaining to, or characterized by, fiction; fictitious; romantic.
Fictionist	 A writer of fiction.
Fictious	 Fictitious.
Fictitious	 Feigned; imaginary; not real; fabulous; counterfeit; false; not genuine; as, fictitious fame.
Fictive	 Feigned
Fictor	 An artist who models or forms statues and reliefs in any plastic material.
Ficus	 A genus of trees or shrubs, one species of which (F. Carica) produces the figs of commerce; the fig tree.
Fid	 A square bar of wood or iron, used to support the topmast, being passed through a hole or mortise at its heel, and resting on the trestle trees.
Fid	 A wooden or metal bar or pin, used to support or steady anything.
Fid	 A pin of hard wood, tapering to a point, used to open the strands of a rope in splicing.
Fid	 A block of wood used in mounting and dismounting heavy guns.
Fidalgo	 The lowest title of nobility in Portugal, corresponding to that of Hidalgo in Spain.
Fiddle	 A stringed instrument of music played with a bow
Fiddle	 A kind of dock (Rumex pulcher) with fiddle-shaped leaves
Fiddle	 A rack or frame of bars connected by strings, to keep table furniture in place on the cabin table in bad weather.
Fiddled	 of Fiddle
Fiddling	 of Fiddle
Fiddle	 To play on a fiddle.
Fiddle	 To keep the hands and fingers actively moving as a fiddler does
Fiddle	 To play (a tune) on a fiddle.
Fiddledeedee	 An exclamatory word or phrase, equivalent to nonsense!
Foddle-faddle	 A trifle
Fiddle-faddle	 To talk nonsense.
Fiddler	 One who plays on a fiddle or violin.
Fiddler	 A burrowing crab of the genus Gelasimus, of many species. The male has one claw very much enlarged, and often holds it in a position similar to that in which a musician holds a fiddle, hence the name; -- called also calling crab, soldier crab, and fighting crab.
Fiddler	 The common European sandpiper (Tringoides hypoleucus)
Fiddle-shaped	 Inversely ovate, with a deep hollow on each side.
Fiddlestick	 The bow, strung with horsehair, used in playing the fiddle; a fiddle bow.
Fiddlestring	 One of the catgut strings of a fiddle.
Fiddlewood	 The wood of several West Indian trees, mostly of the genus Citharexylum.
Fidejussion	 The act or state of being bound as surety for another
Fidejussor	 A surety; one bound for another, conjointly with him; a guarantor.
Fidelity	 Faithfulness; adherence to right; careful and exact observance of duty, or discharge of obligations.
Fidelity	 Adherence to a person or party to which one is bound
Fidelity	 Adherence to the marriage contract.
Fidelity	 Adherence to truth
Fides	 Faith personified as a goddess
Fidge	 See Fidget.
Fidgeted	 of Fidget
Fodgeting	 of Fidget
Fidget	 To move uneasily one way and the other; to move irregularly, or by fits and starts.
Fidget	 Uneasiness
Fidget	 A general nervous restlessness, manifested by incessant changes of position; dysphoria.
Fidgetiness	 Quality of being fidgety.
Fidgety	 Restless
Fidia	 A genus of small beetles, of which one species (the grapevine Fidia, F. longipes) is very injurious to vines in America.
Fidicinal	 Of or pertaining to a stringed instrument.
Fiducial	 Having faith or trust
Fiducial	 Having the nature of a trust; fiduciary; as, fiducial power.
Fiducially	 With confidence.
Fidiciary	 Involving confidence or trust; confident; undoubting; faithful; firm; as, in a fiduciary capacity.
Fidiciary	 Holding, held, or founded, in trust.
Fiduciary	 One who holds a thing in trust for another
Fiduciary	 One who depends for salvation on faith, without works; an Antinomian.
Fie	 An exclamation denoting contempt or dislike. See Fy.
Fief	 An estate held of a superior on condition of military service; a fee; a feud. See under Benefice, n., 2.
Field	 Cleared land
Field	 A piece of land of considerable size; esp., a piece inclosed for tillage or pasture.
Field	 A place where a battle is fought; also, the battle itself.
Field	 An open space
Field	 Any blank space or ground on which figures are drawn or projected.
Field	 The space covered by an optical instrument at one view.
Field	 The whole surface of an escutcheon; also, so much of it is shown unconcealed by the different bearings upon it. See Illust. of Fess, where the field is represented as gules (red), while the fess is argent (silver).
Field	 An unresticted or favorable opportunity for action, operation, or achievement; province; room.
Field	 A collective term for all the competitors in any outdoor contest or trial, or for all except the favorites in the betting.
Field	 That part of the grounds reserved for the players which is outside of the diamond
Fielded	 of Field
Fielding	 of Field
Field	 To take the field.
Field	 To stand out in the field, ready to catch, stop, or throw the ball.
Field	 To catch, stop, throw, etc. (the ball), as a fielder.
Fielded	 Engaged in the field
Fielden	 Consisting of fields.
Fielder	 A ball payer who stands out in the field to catch or stop balls.
Fieldfare	 a small thrush (Turdus pilaris) which breeds in northern Europe and winters in Great Britain. The head, nape, and lower part of the back are ash-colored; the upper part of the back and wing coverts, chestnut; -- called also fellfare.
Fielding	 The act of playing as a fielder.
Fieldpiece	 A cannon mounted on wheels, for the use of a marching army; a piece of field artillery; -- called also field gun.
Fieldwork	 Any temporary fortification thrown up by an army in the field
Fieldy	 Open, like a field.
Fiend	 An implacable or malicious foe
Fiendful	 Full of fiendish spirit or arts.
Fiendish	 Like a fiend
Fiendlike	 Fiendish
Fiendly	 Fiendlike
Fierasfer	 A genus of small, slender fishes, remarkable for their habit of living as commensals in other animals. One species inhabits the gill cavity of the pearl oyster near Panama; another lives within an East Indian holothurian.
Fierce	 Furious; violent; unrestrained; impetuous; as, a fierce wind.
Fierce	 Vehement in anger or cruelty
Fierce	 Excessively earnest, eager, or ardent.
Fieri	 facias A judicial writ that lies for one who has recovered in debt or damages, commanding the sheriff that he cause to be made of the goods, chattels, or real estate of the defendant, the sum claimed.
Fieriness	 The quality of being fiery; heat; acrimony; irritability; as, a fieriness of temper.
Fiery	 Consisting of, containing, or resembling, fire; as, the fiery gulf of Etna; a fiery appearance.
Fiery	 Vehement
Fiery	 Passionate
Fiery	 Unrestrained
Fiery	 heated by fire, or as if by fire; burning hot; parched; feverish.
Fife	 A small shrill pipe, resembling the piccolo flute, used chiefly to accompany the drum in military music.
Fifed	 of Fife
fifing	 of Fife
Fife	 To play on a fife.
Fifer	 One who plays on a fife.
Fifteen	 Five and ten
Fifteen	 The sum of five and ten
Fifteen	 A symbol representing fifteen units, as 15, or xv.
Fifteenth	 Next in order after the fourteenth
Fifteenth	 Consisting of one of fifteen equal parts or divisions of a thing.
Fifteenth	 One of fifteen equal parts or divisions
Fifteenth	 A species of tax upon personal property formerly laid on towns, boroughs, etc., in England, being one fifteenth part of what the personal property in each town, etc., had been valued at.
Fifteenth	 A stop in an organ tuned two octaves above the diaposon.
Fifteenth	 An interval consisting of two octaves.
Fifth	 Next in order after the fourth
Fifth	 Consisting of one of five equal divisions of a thing.
Fifth	 The quotient of a unit divided by five
Fifth	 The interval of three tones and a semitone, embracing five diatonic degrees of the scale; the dominant of any key.
Fifthly	 In the fifth place
Fiftieth	 Next in order after the forty-ninth
Fiftieth	 Consisting of one of fifty equal parts or divisions.
Fiftieth	 One of fifty equal parts
Fifty	 Five times ten; as, fifty men.
Fifties	 of Fifty
Fifty	 The sum of five tens
Fifty	 A symbol representing fifty units, as 50, or l.
Fig	 A small fruit tree (Ficus Carica) with large leaves, known from the remotest antiquity. It was probably native from Syria westward to the Canary Islands.
Fig	 The fruit of a fig tree, which is of round or oblong shape, and of various colors.
Fig	 A small piece of tobacco.
Fig	 The value of a fig, practically nothing; a fico; -- used in scorn or contempt.
Fig	 To insult with a fico, or contemptuous motion. See Fico.
Fig	 To put into the head of, as something useless o/ contemptible.
Fig	 Figure
Figaro	 An adroit and unscrupulous intriguer.
Figary	 A frolic
Figeater	 A large beetle (Allorhina nitida) which in the Southern United States destroys figs. The elytra are velvety green with pale borders.
Figeater	 A bird. See Figpecker.
Figent	 Fidgety
Figgum	 A juggler's trick
Fought	 of Fight
Fighting	 of Fight
Fight	 To strive or contend for victory, with armies or in single combat; to attempt to defeat, subdue, or destroy an enemy, either by blows or weapons; to contend in arms; -- followed by with or against.
Fight	 To act in opposition to anything
Fight	 To carry on, or wage, as a conflict, or battle; to win or gain by struggle, as one's way; to sustain by fighting, as a cause.
Fight	 To contend with in battle; to war against; as, they fought the enemy in two pitched battles; the sloop fought the frigate for three hours.
Fight	 To cause to fight; to manage or maneuver in a fight; as, to fight cocks; to fight one's ship.
Fight	 A battle; an engagement; a contest in arms; a combat; a violent conflict or struggle for victory, between individuals or between armies, ships, or navies, etc.
Fight	 A struggle or contest of any kind.
Fight	 Strength or disposition for fighting; pugnacity; as, he has a great deal of fight in him.
Fight	 A screen for the combatants in ships.
Fighter	 One who fights
Fighting	 Qualified for war
Fighting	 Occupied in war; being the scene of a battle; as, a fighting field.
Fightingly	 Pugnaciously.
Fightwite	 A mulct or fine imposed on a person for making a fight or quarrel to the disturbance of the peace.
Figment	 An invention
Pigpecker	 The European garden warbler (Sylvia, / Currica, hortensis); -- called also beccafico and greater pettychaps.
Fig-shell	 A marine univalve shell of the genus Pyrula, or Ficula, resembling a fig in form.
Figulate	 Alt. of Figulated
Figulated	 Made of potter's clay
Figuline	 A piece of pottery ornamented with representations of natural objects.
Figurability	 The quality of being figurable.
Figurable	 Capable of being brought to a fixed form or shape.
Figural	 Represented by figure or delineation; consisting of figures; as, figural ornaments.
Figural	 Figurate. See Figurate.
Figurant	 One who dances at the opera, not singly, but in groups or figures; an accessory character on the stage, who figures in its scenes, but has nothing to say; hence, one who figures in any scene, without taking a prominent part.
Figurante	 A female figurant; esp., a ballet girl.
Figurate	 Of a definite form or figure.
Figurate	 Figurative
Figurate	 Florid; figurative; involving passing discords by the freer melodic movement of one or more parts or voices in the harmony; as, figurate counterpoint or descant.
Figurated	 Having a determinate form.
Figurately	 In a figurate manner.
Figuration	 The act of giving figure or determinate form
Figuration	 Mixture of concords and discords.
Figurative	 Representing by a figure, or by resemblance; typical; representative.
Figurative	 Used in a sense that is tropical, as a metaphor; not literal; -- applied to words and expressions.
Figurative	 Abounding in figures of speech; flowery; florid; as, a highly figurative description.
Figurative	 Relating to the representation of form or figure by drawing, carving, etc. See Figure, n., 2.
Figure	 The form of anything
Figure	 The representation of any form, as by drawing, painting, modeling, carving, embroidering, etc.; especially, a representation of the human body; as, a figure in bronze; a figure cut in marble.
Figure	 A pattern in cloth, paper, or other manufactured article; a design wrought out in a fabric; as, the muslin was of a pretty figure.
Figure	 A diagram or drawing; made to represent a magnitude or the relation of two or more magnitudes; a surface or space inclosed on all sides; -- called superficial when inclosed by lines, and solid when inclosed by surface; any arrangement made up of points, lines, angles, surfaces, etc.
Figure	 The appearance or impression made by the conduct or carrer of a person; as, a sorry figure.
Figure	 Distinguished appearance
Figure	 A character or symbol representing a number; a numeral; a digit; as, 1, 2,3, etc.
Figure	 Value, as expressed in numbers; price; as, the goods are estimated or sold at a low figure.
Figure	 A person, thing, or action, conceived of as analogous to another person, thing, or action, of which it thus becomes a type or representative.
Figure	 A mode of expressing abstract or immaterial ideas by words which suggest pictures or images from the physical world; pictorial language; a trope; hence, any deviation from the plainest form of statement.
Figure	 The form of a syllogism with respect to the relative position of the middle term.
Figure	 Any one of the several regular steps or movements made by a dancer.
Figure	 A horoscope
Figure	 Any short succession of notes, either as melody or as a group of chords, which produce a single complete and distinct impression.
Figure	 A form of melody or accompaniment kept up through a strain or passage
Figured	 of Figure
Figuring	 of Figure
Figure	 To represent by a figure, as to form or mold; to make an image of, either palpable or ideal; also, to fashion into a determinate form; to shape.
Figure	 To embellish with design
Figure	 To indicate by numerals; also, to compute.
Figure	 To represent by a metaphor
Figure	 To prefigure
Figure	 To write over or under the bass, as figures or other characters, in order to indicate the accompanying chords.
Figure	 To embellish.
Figure	 To make a figure; to be distinguished or conspicious; as, the envoy figured at court.
Figure	 To calculate; to contrive; to scheme; as, he is figuring to secure the nomination.
Figured	 Adorned with figures; marked with figures; as, figured muslin.
Figured	 Not literal
Figured	 Free and florid; as, a figured descant. See Figurate, 3.
Figured	 Indicated or noted by figures.
Figurehead	 The figure, statue, or bust, on the prow of a ship.
Figurehead	 A person who allows his name to be used to give standing to enterprises in which he has no responsible interest or duties; a nominal, but not real, head or chief.
Figurial	 Represented by figure or delineation.
Figurine	 A very small figure, whether human or of an animal; especially, one in terra cotta or the like; -- distinguished from statuette, which is applied to small figures in bronze, marble, etc.
Figurist	 One who uses or interprets figurative expressions.
Figwort	 A genus of herbaceous plants (Scrophularia), mostly found in the north temperate zones. See Brownwort.
Fijian	 Of or pertaining to the Fiji islands or their inhabitants.
Fijian	 A native of the Fiji islands.
Fike	 See Fyke.
Fil	 imp. of Fall, v. i. Fell.
Filaceous	 Composed of threads.
Filacer	 A former officer in the English Court of Common Pleas
Filament	 A thread or threadlike object or appendage; a fiber; esp. (Bot.), the threadlike part of the stamen supporting the anther.
Filamentary	 Having the character of, or formed by, a filament.
Filametoid	 Like a filament.
Filamentous	 Like a thread
Filander	 A species of kangaroo (Macropus Brunii), inhabiting New Guinea.
Filanders	 A disease in hawks, characterized by the presence of small threadlike worms, also of filaments of coagulated blood, from the rupture of a vein; -- called also backworm.
Filar	 Of or pertaining to a thread or line; characterized by threads stretched across the field of view; as, a filar microscope; a filar micrometer.
Filaria	 A genus of slender, nematode worms of many species, parasitic in various animals. See Guinea worm.
Filatory	 A machine for forming threads.
Filature	 A drawing out into threads; hence, the reeling of silk from cocoons.
Filature	 A reel for drawing off silk from cocoons; also, an establishment for reeling silk.
Filbert	 The fruit of the Corylus Avellana or hazel. It is an oval nut, containing a kernel that has a mild, farinaceous, oily taste, agreeable to the palate.
Filched	 of Filch
Filching	 of Filch
Filch	 To steal or take privily (commonly, that which is of little value); to pilfer.
Filcher	 One who filches
Filchingly	 By pilfering or petty stealing.
File	 An orderly succession
File	 A row of soldiers ranged one behind another; -- in contradistinction to rank, which designates a row of soldiers standing abreast; a number consisting the depth of a body of troops, which, in the ordinary modern formation, consists of two men, the battalion standing two deep, or in two ranks.
File	 An orderly collection of papers, arranged in sequence or classified for preservation and reference; as, files of letters or of newspapers; this mail brings English files to the 15th instant.
File	 The line, wire, or other contrivance, by which papers are put and kept in order.
File	 A roll or list.
File	 Course of thought
Filed	 of File
Filing	 of File
File	 To set in order; to arrange, or lay away, esp. as papers in a methodical manner for preservation and reverence; to place on file; to insert in its proper place in an arranged body of papers.
File	 To bring before a court or legislative body by presenting proper papers in a regular way; as, to file a petition or bill.
File	 To put upon the files or among the records of a court
File	 To march in a file or line, as soldiers, not abreast, but one after another; -- generally with off.
File	 A steel instrument, having cutting ridges or teeth, made by indentation with a chisel, used for abrading or smoothing other substances, as metals, wood, etc.
File	 Anything employed to smooth, polish, or rasp, literally or figuratively.
File	 A shrewd or artful person.
File	 To rub, smooth, or cut away, with a file; to sharpen with a file; as, to file a saw or a tooth.
File	 To smooth or polish as with a file.
File	 To make foul
Filefish	 Any plectognath fish of the genera Monacanthus, Alutera, balistes, and allied genera; -- so called on account of the roughly granulated skin, which is sometimes used in place of sandpaper.
Filemot	 See Feullemort.
Filer	 One who works with a file.
Filial	 Of or pertaining to a son or daughter; becoming to a child in relation to his parents; as, filial obedience.
Filial	 Bearing the relation of a child.
Filially	 In a filial manner.
Filiate	 To adopt as son or daughter
Filiation	 The relationship of a son or child to a parent, esp. to a father.
Filiation	 The assignment of a bastard child to some one as its father
Filibeg	 Same as Kilt.
Filibuster	 A lawless military adventurer, especially one in quest of plunder; a freebooter; -- originally applied to buccaneers infesting the Spanish American coasts, but introduced into common English to designate the followers of Lopez in his expedition to Cuba in 1851, and those of Walker in his expedition to Nicaragua, in 1855.
Fillibustered	 of Filibuster
Filibustering	 of Filibuster
Filibuster	 To act as a filibuster, or military freebooter.
Filibuster	 To delay legislation, by dilatory motions or other artifices.
Filibusterism	 The characteristics or practices of a filibuster.
Filical	 Belonging to the Filices, r ferns.
Filicic	 Pertaining to, or derived from, ferns; as, filicic acid.
Filicide	 The act of murdering a son or a daughter; also, parent who commits such a murder.
Filiciform	 Shaped like a fern or like the parts of a fern leaf.
Filicoid	 Fernlike, either in form or in the nature of the method of reproduction.
Filicoid	 A fernlike plant.
Filiety	 The relation of a son to a father
Filiferous	 Producing threads.
Filiform	 Having the shape of a thread or filament; as, the filiform papillae of the tongue; a filiform style or peduncle. See Illust. of AntennAe.
Filigrain	 Alt. of Filigrane
Filigrane	 Filigree.
Filigraned	 See Filigreed.
Filigree	 Ornamental work, formerly with grains or breads, but now composed of fine wire and used chiefly in decorating gold and silver to which the wire is soldered, being arranged in designs frequently of a delicate and intricate arabesque pattern.
Filigree	 Relating to, composed of, or resembling, work in filigree; as, a filigree basket. Hence: Fanciful; unsubstantial; merely decorative.
Filigreed	 Adorned with filigree.
Filing	 A fragment or particle rubbed off by the act of filing; as, iron filings.
Filipendulous	 Suspended by, or strung upon, a thread; -- said of tuberous swellings in the middle or at the extremities of slender, threadlike rootlets.
Fill	 One of the thills or shafts of a carriage.
Filled	 of Fill
Filling	 of Fill
Fill	 To make full; to supply with as much as can be held or contained; to put or pour into, till no more can be received; to occupy the whole capacity of.
Fill	 To furnish an abudant supply to
Fill	 To fill or supply fully with food
Fill	 To possess and perform the duties of; to officiate in, as an incumbent; to occupy; to hold; as, a king fills a throne; the president fills the office of chief magistrate; the speaker of the House fills the chair.
Fill	 To supply with an incumbent; as, to fill an office or a vacancy.
Fill	 To press and dilate, as a sail; as, the wind filled the sails.
Fill	 To trim (a yard) so that the wind shall blow on the after side of the sails.
Fill	 To make an embankment in, or raise the level of (a low place), with earth or gravel.
Fill	 To become full; to have the whole capacity occupied; to have an abundant supply; to be satiated; as, corn fills well in a warm season; the sail fills with the wind.
Fill	 To fill a cup or glass for drinking.
Fill	 A full supply, as much as supplies want; as much as gives complete satisfaction.
Filler	 One who, or that which, fills; something used for filling.
Filler	 A thill horse.
Fillet	 A little band, especially one intended to encircle the hair of the head.
Fillet	 A piece of lean meat without bone; sometimes, a long strip rolled together and tied.
Fillet	 A thin strip or ribbon
Fillet	 A concave filling in of a reentrant angle where two surfaces meet, forming a rounded corner.
Fillet	 A narrow flat member; especially, a flat molding separating other moldings; a reglet; also, the space between two flutings in a shaft. See Illust. of Base, and Column.
Fillet	 An ordinary equaling in breadth one fourth of the chief, to the lowest portion of which it corresponds in position.
Fillet	 The thread of a screw.
Fillet	 A border of broad or narrow lines of color or gilt.
Fillet	 The raised molding about the muzzle of a gun.
Fillet	 Any scantling smaller than a batten.
Fillet	 A fascia
Fillet	 The loins of a horse, beginning at the place where the hinder part of the saddle rests.
Filleted	 of Fillet
Filleting	 of Fillet
Fillet	 To bind, furnish, or adorn with a fillet.
Filleting	 The protecting of a joint, as between roof and parapet wall, with mortar, or cement, where flashing is employed in better work.
Filleting	 The material of which fillets are made; also, fillets, collectively.
Fillibeg	 A kilt. See Filibeg.
Fillibuster	 See Filibuster.
Filling	 That which is used to fill a cavity or any empty space, or to supply a deficiency; as, filling for a cavity in a tooth, a depression in a roadbed, the space between exterior and interior walls of masonry, the pores of open-grained wood, the space between the outer and inner planks of a vessel, etc.
Filling	 The woof in woven fabrics.
Filling	 Prepared wort added to ale to cleanse it.
Filliped	 of Fillip
Filliping	 of Fillip
Fillip	 To strike with the nail of the finger, first placed against the ball of the thumb, and forced from that position with a sudden spring; to snap with the finger.
Fillip	 To snap
Fillip	 A jerk of the finger forced suddenly from the thumb
Fillip	 Something serving to rouse or excite.
Fillipeen	 See Philopena.
Fillister	 The rabbet on the outer edge of a sash bar to hold the glass and the putty.
Fillister	 A plane for making a rabbet.
Fillies	 of Filly
Filly	 A female foal or colt; a young mare. Cf. Colt, Foal.
Filly	 A lively, spirited young girl.
Film	 A thin skin; a pellicle; a membranous covering, causing opacity; hence, any thin, slight covering.
Film	 A slender thread, as that of a cobweb.
Film	 To cover with a thin skin or pellicle.
Filminess	 State of being filmy.
Filmy	 Composed of film or films.
Filoplumaceous	 Having the structure of a filoplume.
Filoplume	 A hairlike feather
Filose	 Terminating in a threadlike process.
Filter	 Any porous substance, as cloth, paper, sand, or charcoal, through which water or other liquid may passed to cleanse it from the solid or impure matter held in suspension; a chamber or device containing such substance; a strainer; also, a similar device for purifying air.
Filtered	 of Filter
Filtering	 of Filter
Filter	 To purify or defecate, as water or other liquid, by causing it to pass through a filter.
Filter	 To pass through a filter
Filter	 Same as Philter.
Filth	 Foul matter
Filth	 Anything that sullies or defiles the moral character
Filthily	 In a filthy manner
Filthiness	 The state of being filthy.
Filthiness	 That which is filthy, or makes filthy; foulness; nastiness; corruption; pollution; impurity.
Filthy	 Defiled with filth, whether material or moral; nasty; dirty; polluted; foul; impure; obscene.
Filtrated	 of Filtrate
Filtrating	 of Filtrate
Filtrate	 To filter; to defecate; as liquid, by straining or percolation.
Filtrate	 That which has been filtered
Filtration	 The act or process of filtering
Finble	 Alt. of Fimble hemp
Fimble	 hemp Light summer hemp, that bears no seed.
Fimbriae	 of Fimbria
Fimbria	 A fringe, or fringed border.
Fimbria	 A band of white matter bordering the hippocampus in the brain.
Fimbriate	 Having the edge or extremity bordered by filiform processes thicker than hairs; fringed; as, the fimbriate petals of the pink; the fimbriate end of the Fallopian tube.
Fimbriated	 of Fimbriate
Fimbriating	 of Fimbriate
Fimbriate	 To hem
Fimbriated	 Having a fringed border
Fimbriated	 Having a very narrow border of another tincture
Fimbricate	 Fringed
Fimbricate	 fringed, on one side only, by long, straight hairs, as the antennae of certain insects.
Finned	 of Fin
Finning	 of Fin
Fin	 To carve or cut up, as a chub.
Fin	 End
Fin	 An organ of a fish, consisting of a membrane supported by rays, or little bony or cartilaginous ossicles, and serving to balance and propel it in the water.
Fin	 A membranous, finlike, swimming organ, as in pteropod and heteropod mollusks.
Fin	 A finlike organ or attachment
Fin	 The hand.
Fin	 A blade of whalebone.
Fin	 A mark or ridge left on a casting at the junction of the parts of a mold.
Fin	 The thin sheet of metal squeezed out between the collars of the rolls in the process of rolling.
Fin	 A feather
Fin	 A finlike appendage, as to submarine boats.
Finable	 Liable or subject to a fine; as, a finable person or offense.
Final	 Pertaining to the end or conclusion; last; terminating; ultimate; as, the final day of a school term.
Final	 Conclusive; decisive; as, a final judgment; the battle of Waterloo brought the contest to a final issue.
Final	 Respecting an end or object to be gained
Finale	 Close
Finale	 The last movement of a symphony, sonata, concerto, or any instrumental composition.
Finale	 The last composition performed in any act of an opera.
Finale	 The closing part, piece, or scene in any public performance or exhibition.
Finalities	 of Finality
Finality	 The state of being final, finished, or complete; a final or conclusive arrangement; a settlement.
Finality	 The relation of end or purpose to its means.
Finally	 At the end or conclusion; ultimately; lastly; as, the contest was long, but the Romans finally conquered.
Finally	 Completely
Finance	 The income of a ruler or of a state; revennue; public money; sometimes, the income of an individual; often used in the plural for funds; available money; resources.
Finance	 The science of raising and expending the public revenue.
Financial	 Pertaining to finance.
Financialist	 A financier.
Financially	 In a dfinancial manner.
Financier	 One charged with the administration of finance
Financier	 One skilled in financial operations
Financiered	 of Financier
Financiering	 of Financier
Financier	 To conduct financial operations.
Finary	 See Finery.
Finative	 Conclusive
Finback	 Any whale of the genera Sibbaldius, Balaenoptera, and allied genera, of the family Balaenopteridae, characterized by a prominent fin on the back. The common finbacks of the New England coast are Sibbaldius tectirostris and S. tuberosus.
Fishes	 of Finch
Finch	 A small singing bird of many genera and species, belonging to the family Fringillidae.
Finchbacked	 Streaked or spotted on the back
Finched	 Same as Finchbacked.
Found	 of Find
Finding	 of Find
Find	 To meet with, or light upon, accidentally; to gain the first sight or knowledge of, as of something new, or unknown; hence, to fall in with, as a person.
Find	 To learn by experience or trial
Find	 To come upon by seeking; as, to find something lost.
Find	 To discover by sounding; as, to find bottom.
Find	 To discover by study or experiment direct to an object or end; as, water is found to be a compound substance.
Find	 To gain, as the object of desire or effort; as, to find leisure; to find means.
Find	 To attain to
Find	 To provide for; to supply; to furnish; as, to find food for workemen; he finds his nephew in money.
Find	 To arrive at, as a conclusion; to determine as true; to establish; as, to find a verdict; to find a true bill (of indictment) against an accused person.
Find	 To determine an issue of fact, and to declare such a determination to a court; as, the jury find for the plaintiff.
Find	 Anything found; a discovery of anything valuable; especially, a deposit, discovered by archaeologists, of objects of prehistoric or unknown origin.
Findable	 Capable of beong found
Finder	 One who, or that which, finds; specifically (Astron.), a small telescope of low power and large field of view, attached to a larger telescope, for the purpose of finding an object more readily.
Findfault	 A censurer or caviler.
Findfaulting	 Apt to censure or cavil
Finding	 That which is found, come upon, or provided; esp. (pl.), that which a journeyman artisan finds or provides for himself; as tools, trimmings, etc.
Finding	 Support
Finding	 The result of a judicial examination or inquiry, especially into some matter of fact; a verdict; as, the finding of a jury.
Findy	 Full
Fine	 Finished; brought to perfection; refined; hence, free from impurity; excellent; superior; elegant; worthy of admiration; accomplished; beautiful.
Fine	 Aiming at show or effect
Fine	 Nice
Fine	 Not coarse, gross, or heavy
Fine	 Not gross
Fine	 Not coarse; comminuted; in small particles; as, fine sand or flour.
Fine	 Not thick or heavy; slender; filmy; as, a fine thread.
Fine	 Thin; attenuate; keen; as, a fine edge.
Fine	 Made of fine materials; light; delicate; as, fine linen or silk.
Fine	 Having (such) a proportion of pure metal in its composition; as, coins nine tenths fine.
Fine	 (Used ironically.)
Fined	 of Fine
Fining	 of Fine
Fine	 To make fine; to refine; to purify, to clarify; as, to fine gold.
Fine	 To make finer, or less coarse, as in bulk, texture, etc.; as. to fine the soil.
Fine	 To change by fine gradations; as (Naut.), to fine down a ship's lines, to diminish her lines gradually.
Fine	 End
Fine	 A sum of money paid as the settlement of a claim, or by way of terminating a matter in dispute; especially, a payment of money imposed upon a party as a punishment for an offense; a mulct.
Fine	 A final agreement concerning lands or rents between persons, as the lord and his vassal.
Fine	 A sum of money or price paid for obtaining a benefit, favor, or privilege, as for admission to a copyhold, or for obtaining or renewing a lease.
Fine	 To impose a pecuniary penalty upon for an offense or breach of law; to set a fine on by judgment of a court; to punish by fine; to mulct; as, the trespassers were fined ten dollars.
Fine	 To pay a fine. See Fine, n., 3 (b).
Fine	 To finish
Finedrawn	 of Finedraw
Finedrawing	 of Finedraw
Finedraw	 To sew up, so nicely that the seam is not perceived; to renter.
Finedrawer	 One who finedraws.
Finedrawn	 Drawn out with too much subtilty; overnice; as, finedrawn speculations.
Fineer	 To run in dept by getting goods made up in a way unsuitable for the use of others, and then threatening not to take them except on credit.
Fineer	 To veneer.
Fineless	 Endless
Finely	 In a fine or finished manner.
Fineness	 The quality or condition of being fine.
Fineness	 Freedom from foreign matter or alloy; clearness; purity; as, the fineness of liquor.
Fineness	 The proportion of pure silver or gold in jewelry, bullion, or coins.
Fineness	 Keenness or sharpness; as, the fineness of a needle's point, or of the edge of a blade.
Finer	 One who fines or purifies.
Finery	 Fineness
Finery	 Ornament; decoration; especially, excecially decoration; showy clothes; jewels.
Finery	 A charcoal hearth or furnace for the conversion of cast iron into wrought iron, or into iron suitable for puddling.
Finespun	 Spun so as to be fine; drawn to a fine thread; attenuated; hence, unsubstantial; visionary; as, finespun theories.
Finesse	 Subtilty of contrivance to gain a point
Finesse	 The act of finessing. See Finesse, v. i., 2.
Finessed	 of Finesse
Finessing	 of Finesse
Finesse	 To use artifice or stratagem.
Finesse	 To attempt, when second or third player, to make a lower card answer the purpose of a higher, when an intermediate card is out, risking the chance of its being held by the opponent yet to play.
Finestill	 To distill, as spirit from molasses or some saccharine preparation.
Finestiller	 One who finestills.
Finew	 Moldiness.
Finfish	 A finback whale.
Finfish	 True fish, as distinguished from shellfish.
Finfoot	 A South American bird (heliornis fulica) allied to the grebes. The name is also applied to several related species of the genus Podica.
Fin-footed	 Having palmate feet.
Fin-footed	 Having lobate toes, as the coot and grebe.
Finger	 One of the five terminating members of the hand; a digit; esp., one of the four extermities of the hand, other than the thumb.
Finger	 Anything that does work of a finger; as, the pointer of a clock, watch, or other registering machine; especially (Mech.) a small projecting rod, wire, or piece, which is brought into contact with an object to effect, direct, or restrain a motion.
Finger	 The breadth of a finger, or the fourth part of the hand; a measure of nearly an inch; also, the length of finger, a measure in domestic use in the United States, of about four and a half inches or one eighth of a yard.
Finger	 Skill in the use of the fingers, as in playing upon a musical instrument.
Fingered	 of Finger
Fingering	 of Finger
Finger	 To touch with the fingers
Finger	 To touch lightly
Finger	 To perform on an instrument of music.
Finger	 To mark the notes of (a piece of music) so as to guide the fingers in playing.
Finger	 To take thievishly
Finger	 To execute, as any delicate work.
Finger	 To use the fingers in playing on an instrument.
Fingered	 Having fingers.
Fingered	 Having leaflets like fingers
Fingered	 Marked with figures designating which finger should be used for each note.
Fingerer	 One who fingers
Fingering	 The act or process of handling or touching with the fingers.
Fingering	 The manner of using the fingers in playing or striking the keys of an instrument of music; movement or management of the fingers in playing on a musical instrument, in typewriting, etc.
Fingering	 The marking of the notes of a piece of music to guide or regulate the action or use of the fingers.
Fingering	 Delicate work made with the fingers.
Fingerling	 A young salmon. See Parr.
Fingle-fangle	 A trifle.
Fingrigos	 of Fingrigo
Fingrigo	 A prickly, climbing shrub of the genus Pisonia. The fruit is a kind of berry.
Finial	 The knot or bunch of foliage, or foliated ornament, that forms the upper extremity of a pinnacle in Gothic architecture; sometimes, the pinnacle itself.
Finical	 Affectedly fine
Finicality	 The quality of being finical
Finicking	 Alt. of Finicky
Finicky	 Finical
Finific	 A limiting element or quality.
Finify	 To make fine
Finikin	 Precise in trifles
Fining	 The act of imposing a fin/.
Fining	 The process of fining or refining; clarification; also (Metal.), the conversion of cast iron into suitable for puddling, in a hearth or charcoal fire.
Fining	 That which is used to refine; especially, a preparation of isinglass, gelatin, etc., for clarifying beer.
Finis	 An end
Finished	 of Finish
Finishing	 of Finish
Finish	 To arrive at the end of
Finish	 To bestow the last required labor upon
Finish	 To come to an end
Finish	 To end
Finish	 That which finishes, puts an end to/ or perfects.
Finish	 The joiner work and other finer work required for the completion of a building, especially of the interior. See Inside finish, and Outside finish.
Finish	 The labor required to give final completion to any work; hence, minute detail, careful elaboration, or the like.
Finish	 See Finishing coat, under Finishing.
Finish	 The result of completed labor, as on the surface of an object; manner or style of finishing; as, a rough, dead, or glossy finish given to cloth, stone, metal, etc.
Finish	 Completion; -- opposed to start, or beginning.
Finished	 Polished to the highest degree of excellence; complete; perfect; as, a finished poem; a finished education.
Finisher	 One who finishes, puts an end to, completes, or perfects; esp. used in the trades, as in hatting, weaving, etc., for the workman who gives a finishing touch to the work, or any part of it, and brings it to perfection.
Finisher	 Something that gives the finishing touch to, or settles, anything.
Finishing	 The act or process of completing or perfecting
Finishing	 Tending to complete or to render fit for the market or for use.
Finite	 Having a limit; limited in quantity, degree, or capacity; bounded; -- opposed to infinite; as, finite number; finite existence; a finite being; a finite mind; finite duration.
Finiteless	 Infinite.
Finitely	 In a finite manner or degree.
Finiteness	 The state of being finite.
Finitude	 Limitation.
Finlander	 A native or inhabitant of Finland.
Finless	 destitute of fins.
Finlet	 A little fin
Finlike	 Resembling a fin.
Finn	 A native of Finland
Finnan	 haddie Haddock cured in peat smoke, originally at Findon (pron. fin"an), Scotland. the name is also applied to other kinds of smoked haddock.
Finned	 Having a fin, or fins, or anything resembling a fin.
Finner	 A finback whale.
Finnic	 Of or pertaining to the Finns.
Finnikin	 A variety of pigeon, with a crest somewhat resembling the mane of a horse.
Finnish	 Of or pertaining to Finland, to the Finns, or to their language.
Finnish	 A Northern Turanian group of languages
Finns	 Natives of Finland
Finns	 A branch of the Mongolian race, inhabiting Northern and Eastern Europe, including the Magyars, Bulgarians, Permians, Lapps, and Finlanders.
Finny	 Having, or abounding in, fins, as fishes; pertaining to fishes.
Finny	 Abounding in fishes.
Finochio	 An umbelliferous plant (Foeniculum dulce) having a somewhat tuberous stem
Finos	 Second best wool from Merino sheep.
Finpike	 The bichir. See Crossopterygii.
Fint	 3d pers. sing. pr. of Find, for findeth.
Fin-toed	 Having toes connected by a membrane; palmiped; palmated; also, lobate.
Fiord	 A narrow inlet of the sea, penetrating between high banks or rocks, as on the coasts of Norway and Alaska.
Fiorin	 A species of creeping bent grass (Agrostis alba)
Fiorite	 A variety of opal occuring in the cavities of volcanic tufa, in smooth and shining globular and botryoidal masses, having a pearly luster; -- so called from Fiora, in Ischia.
Fioriture	 Little flowers of ornament introduced into a melody by a singer or player.
Fippenny	 bit The Spanish half real, or one sixteenth of a dollar, -- so called in Pennsylvania and the adjacent States.
Fipple	 A stopper, as in a wind instrument of music.
Fir	 A genus (Abies) of coniferous trees, often of large size and elegant shape, some of them valued for their timber and others for their resin. The species are distinguished as the balsam fir, the silver fir, the red fir, etc. The Scotch fir is a Pinus.
Fire	 The evolution of light and heat in the combustion of bodies
Fire	 Fuel in a state of combustion, as on a hearth, or in a stove or a furnace.
Fire	 The burning of a house or town
Fire	 Anything which destroys or affects like fire.
Fire	 Ardor of passion, whether love or hate; excessive warmth; consuming violence of temper.
Fire	 Liveliness of imagination or fancy
Fire	 Splendor; brilliancy; luster; hence, a star.
Fire	 Torture by burning
Fire	 The discharge of firearms; firing; as, the troops were exposed to a heavy fire.
Fired	 of Fire
Fring	 of Fire
Fire	 To set on fire; to kindle; as, to fire a house or chimney; to fire a pile.
Fire	 To subject to intense heat; to bake; to burn in a kiln; as, to fire pottery.
Fire	 To inflame; to irritate, as the passions; as, to fire the soul with anger, pride, or revenge.
Fire	 To animate; to give life or spirit to; as, to fire the genius of a young man.
Fire	 To feed or serve the fire of; as, to fire a boiler.
Fire	 To light up as if by fire
Fire	 To cause to explode; as, to fire a torpedo; to disharge; as, to fire a musket or cannon; to fire cannon balls, rockets, etc.
Fire	 To drive by fire.
Fire	 To cauterize.
Fire	 To take fire
Fire	 To be irritated or inflamed with passion.
Fire	 To discharge artillery or firearms; as, they fired on the town.
Firearm	 A gun, pistol, or any weapon from a shot is discharged by the force of an explosive substance, as gunpowder.
Fireback	 One of several species of pheasants of the genus Euplocamus, having the lower back a bright, fiery red. They inhabit Southern Asia and the East Indies.
Fireball	 A ball filled with powder or other combustibles, intended to be thrown among enemies, and to injure by explosion; also, to set fire to their works and light them up, so that movements may be seen.
Fireball	 A luminous meteor, resembling a ball of fire passing rapidly through the air, and sometimes exploding.
Firebare	 A beacon.
Fire	 beetle A very brilliantly luminous beetle (Pyrophorus noctilucus), one of the elaters, found in Central and South America; -- called also cucujo. The name is also applied to other species. See Firefly.
Firebird	 The Baltimore oriole.
Fireboard	 A chimney board or screen to close a fireplace when not in use.
Firebote	 An allowance of fuel. See Bote.
Firebrand	 A piece of burning wood.
Firebrand	 One who inflames factions, or causes contention and mischief; an incendiary.
Firecracker	 See Cracker., n., 3.
Firecrest	 A small European kinglet (Regulus ignicapillus), having a bright red crest; -- called also fire-crested wren.
Firedog	 A support for wood in a fireplace
Firedrake	 A fiery dragon.
Firedrake	 A fiery meteor
Firedrake	 A worker at a furnace or fire.
Fire-fanged	 Injured as by fire
Firefish	 A singular marine fish of the genus Pterois, family Scorpaenidae, of several species, inhabiting the Indo-Pacific region. They are usually red, and have very large spinose pectoral and dorsal fins.
Fireflaire	 A European sting ray of the genus Trygon (T. pastinaca)
Fireflame	 The European band fish (Cepola rubescens).
Fireflies	 of Firefly
Firefly	 Any luminous winged insect, esp. luminous beetles of the family Lampyridae.
Fireless	 Destitute of fire.
Firelock	 An old form of gunlock, as the flintlock, which ignites the priming by a spark; perhaps originally, a matchlock. Hence, a gun having such a lock.
Firemen	 of Fireman
Fireman	 A man whose business is to extinguish fires in towns
Fireman	 A man who tends the fires, as of a steam engine; a stocker.
Fire-new	 Fresh from the forge
Fireplace	 The part a chimney appropriated to the fire; a hearth; -- usually an open recess in a wall, in which a fire may be built.
Fireproof	 Proof against fire
Fireprrofing	 The act or process of rendering anything incombustible; also, the materials used in the process.
Firer	 One who fires or sets fire to anything
Fire-set	 A set of fire irons, including, commonly, tongs, shovel, and poker.
Fireside	 A place near the fire or hearth
Firestone	 Iron pyrites, formerly used for striking fire; also, a flint.
Firestone	 A stone which will bear the heat of a furnace without injury; -- especially applied to the sandstone at the top of the upper greensand in the south of England, used for lining kilns and furnaces.
Firetail	 The European redstart
Firewarden	 An officer who has authority to direct in the extinguishing of fires, or to order what precautions shall be taken against fires; -- called also fireward.
Fireweed	 An American plant (Erechthites hiercifolia), very troublesome in spots where brushwood has been burned.
Fireweed	 The great willow-herb (Epilobium spicatum).
Firewood	 Wood for fuel.
Firework	 A device for producing a striking display of light, or a figure or figures in plain or colored fire, by the combustion of materials that burn in some peculiar manner, as gunpowder, sulphur, metallic filings, and various salts. The most common feature of fireworks is a paper or pasteboard tube filled with the combustible material. A number of these tubes or cases are often combined so as to make, when kindled, a great variety of figures in fire, often variously colored. The skyrocket is a common form of firework. The name is also given to various combustible preparations used in war.
Firework	 A pyrotechnic exhibition.
Fireworm	 The larva of a small tortricid moth which eats the leaves of the cranberry, so that the vines look as if burned; -- called also cranberry worm.
Firing	 The act of disharging firearms.
Firing	 The mode of introducing fuel into the furnace and working it.
Firing	 The application of fire, or of a cautery.
Firing	 The process of partly vitrifying pottery by exposing it to intense heat in a kiln.
Firing	 Fuel
Firk	 To beat
Firk	 To fly out
Firk	 A freak
Firkin	 A varying measure of capacity, usually being the fourth part of a barrel; specifically, a measure equal to nine imperial gallons.
Firkin	 A small wooden vessel or cask of indeterminate size, -- used for butter, lard, etc.
Firlot	 A dry measure formerly used in Scotland
Firm	 Fixed; hence, closely compressed; compact; substantial; hard; solid; -- applied to the matter of bodies; as, firm flesh; firm muscles, firm wood.
Firm	 Not easily excited or disturbed; unchanging in purpose; fixed; steady; constant; stable; unshaken; not easily changed in feelings or will; strong; as, a firm believer; a firm friend; a firm adherent.
Firm	 Solid; -- opposed to fluid; as, firm land.
Firm	 Indicating firmness; as, a firm tread; a firm countenance.
Firm	 The name, title, or style, under which a company transacts business; a partnership of two or more persons; a commercial house; as, the firm of Hope & Co.
Firm	 To fix
Firm	 To fix or direct with firmness.
Firmament	 Fixed foundation
Firmament	 The region of the air
Firmament	 The orb of the fixed stars
Firmamental	 Pertaining to the firmament
Firmans	 of Firman
Firman	 In Turkey and some other Oriental countries, a decree or mandate issued by the sovereign; a royal order or grant; -- generally given for special objects, as to a traveler to insure him protection and assistance.
Firmer-chisel	 A chisel, thin in proportion to its width. It has a tang to enter the handle instead of a socket for receiving it.
Firmitude	 Strength
Firmity	 Strength
Firmless	 Detached from substance.
Firmless	 Infirm
Firmly	 In a firm manner.
Firmness	 The state or quality of being firm.
Firms	 The principal rafters of a roof, especially a pair of rafters taken together.
Firring	 See Furring.
Firry	 Made of fir
First	 Preceding all others of a series or kind; the ordinal of one; earliest; as, the first day of a month; the first year of a reign.
First	 Foremost; in front of, or in advance of, all others.
First	 Most eminent or exalted; most excellent; chief; highest; as, Demosthenes was the first orator of Greece.
First	 Before any other person or thing in time, space, rank, etc.; -- much used in composition with adjectives and participles.
First	 The upper part of a duet, trio, etc., either vocal or instrumental; -- so called because it generally expresses the air, and has a preeminence in the combined effect.
Firstborn	 First brought forth; first in the order of nativity; eldest; hence, most excellent; most distinguished or exalted.
First-class	 Of the best class; of the highest rank; in the first division; of the best quality; first-rate; as, a first-class telescope.
First-hand	 Obtained directly from the first or original source; hence, without the intervention of an agent.
Firstling	 The first produce or offspring; -- said of animals, especially domestic animals; as, the firstlings of his flock.
Firstling	 The thing first thought or done.
Firstling	 Firstborn.
Firstly	 In the first place
First-rate	 Of the highest excellence; preeminent in quality, size, or estimation.
First-rate	 A war vessel of the highest grade or the most powerful class.
Firth	 An arm of the sea
Fir	 tree See Fir.
Fisc	 A public or state treasury.
Fiscal	 Pertaining to the public treasury or revenue.
Fiscal	 The income of a prince or a state
Fiscal	 A treasurer.
Fiscal	 A public officer in Scotland who prosecutes in petty criminal cases
Fiscal	 The solicitor in Spain and Portugal
Fisetic	 Pertaining to fustet or fisetin.
Fisetin	 A yellow crystalline substance extracted from fustet, and regarded as its essential coloring principle; -- called also fisetic acid.
Fish	 A counter, used in various games.
Fishes	 of Fish
Fish	 of Fish
Fish	 A name loosely applied in popular usage to many animals of diverse characteristics, living in the water.
Fish	 An oviparous, vertebrate animal usually having fins and a covering scales or plates. It breathes by means of gills, and lives almost entirely in the water. See Pisces.
Fish	 The twelfth sign of the zodiac
Fish	 The flesh of fish, used as food.
Fish	 A purchase used to fish the anchor.
Fish	 A piece of timber, somewhat in the form of a fish, used to strengthen a mast or yard.
Fished	 of Fish
Fishing	 of Fish
Fish	 To attempt to catch fish; to be employed in taking fish, by any means, as by angling or drawing a net.
Fish	 To seek to obtain by artifice, or indirectly to seek to draw forth; as, to fish for compliments.
Fish	 To catch; to draw out or up; as, to fish up an anchor.
Fish	 To search by raking or sweeping.
Fish	 To try with a fishing rod; to catch fish in; as, to fish a stream.
Fish	 To strengthen (a beam, mast, etc.), or unite end to end (two timbers, railroad rails, etc.) by bolting a plank, timber, or plate to the beam, mast, or timbers, lengthwise on one or both sides. See Fish joint, under Fish, n.
Fish-bellied	 Bellying or swelling out on the under side; as, a fish-bellied rail.
Fish-block	 See Fish-tackle.
Fisher	 One who fishes.
Fisher	 A carnivorous animal of the Weasel family (Mustela Canadensis); the pekan; the "black cat."
Fishermen	 of Fisherman
Fisherman	 One whose occupation is to catch fish.
Fisherman	 A ship or vessel employed in the business of taking fish, as in the cod fishery.
Fisheries	 of Fishery
Fishery	 The business or practice of catching fish
Fishery	 A place for catching fish.
Fishery	 The right to take fish at a certain place, or in particular waters.
Fishful	 Abounding with fish.
Fishgig	 A spear with barbed prongs used for harpooning fish.
Fishhawk	 The osprey (Pandion haliaetus), found both in Europe and America; -- so called because it plunges into the water and seizes fishes in its talons. Called also fishing eagle, and bald buzzard.
Fishhook	 A hook for catching fish.
Fishhook	 A hook with a pendant, to the end of which the fish-tackle is hooked.
Fishify	 To change to fish.
Fishiness	 The state or quality of being fishy or fishlike.
Fishing	 The act, practice, or art of one who fishes.
Fishing	 A fishery.
Fishing	 Pertaining to fishing; used in fishery; engaged in fishing; as, fishing boat; fishing tackle; fishing village.
Fishlike	 Like fish
Fishmonger	 A dealer in fish.
Fishskin	 The skin of a fish (dog fish, shark, etc.)
Fishskin	 See Ichthyosis.
Fish-tackle	 A tackle or purchase used to raise the flukes of the anchor up to the gunwale. The block used is called the fish-block.
Fish-tail	 Like the of a fish; acting, or producing something, like the tail of a fish.
Fishwife	 A fishwoman.
Fishwomen	 of Fishwoman
Fishwoman	 A woman who retails fish.
Fishy	 Consisting of fish
Fishy	 Extravagant, like some stories about catching fish; improbable; also, rank or foul.
Fisk	 To run about
Fissigemmation	 A process of reproduction intermediate between fission and gemmation.
Fissile	 Capable of being split, cleft, or divided in the direction of the grain, like wood, or along natural planes of cleavage, like crystals.
Fissilingual	 Having the tongue forked.
Fissilinguia	 A group of Lacertilia having the tongue forked, including the common lizards.
Fissility	 Quality of being fissile.
Fission	 A cleaving, splitting, or breaking up into parts.
Fission	 A method of asexual reproduction among the lowest (unicellular) organisms by means of a process of self-division, consisting of gradual division or cleavage of the into two parts, each of which then becomes a separate and independent organisms; as when a cell in an animal or plant, or its germ, undergoes a spontaneous division, and the parts again subdivide. See Segmentation, and Cell division, under Division.
Fission	 A process by which certain coral polyps, echinoderms, annelids, etc., spontaneously subdivide, each individual thus forming two or more new ones. See Strobilation.
Fissipalmate	 Semipalmate and loboped, as a grebe's foot. See Illust. under Aves.
Fissipara	 Animals which reproduce by fission.
Fissiparism	 Reproduction by spontaneous fission.
Fissiparity	 Quality of being fissiparous
Fissiparous	 Reproducing by spontaneous fission. See Fission.
Fissipation	 Reproduction by fission
Fissiped	 Alt. of Fissipedal
Fissipedal	 Having the toes separated to the base. [See Aves.]
Fissiped	 One of the Fissipedia.
Fissipedia	 A division of the Carnivora, including the dogs, cats, and bears, in which the feet are not webbed; -- opposed to Pinnipedia.
Fissirostral	 Having the bill cleft beyond the horny part, as in the case of swallows and goatsuckers.
Fissirostres	 A group of birds having the bill deeply cleft.
Fissural	 Pertaining to a fissure or fissures; as, the fissural pattern of a brain.
Fissuration	 The act of dividing or opening
Fissure	 A narrow opening, made by the parting of any substance; a cleft; as, the fissure of a rock.
Fissure	 To cleave
Fissurella	 A genus of marine gastropod mollusks, having a conical or limpetlike shell, with an opening at the apex; -- called also keyhole limpet.
Fist	 The hand with the fingers doubled into the palm; the closed hand, especially as clinched tightly for the purpose of striking a blow.
Fist	 The talons of a bird of prey.
Fist	 the index mark [/], used to direct special attention to the passage which follows.
Fisted	 of Fist
Fisting	 of Fist
Fist	 To strike with the fist.
Fist	 To gripe with the fist.
Fistic	 Pertaining to boxing, or to encounters with the fists; puglistic; as, fistic exploits; fistic heroes.
Fisticuff	 A cuff or blow with the fist or hand
Fisticuff	 a fight with the fists
Fistinut	 A pistachio nut.
Fistuca	 An instrument used by the ancients in driving piles.
Fistulae	 of Fistula
Fistula	 A reed
Fistula	 A pipe for convejing water.
Fistula	 A permanent abnormal opening into the soft parts with a constant discharge; a deep, narrow, chronic abscess; an abnormal opening between an internal cavity and another cavity or the surface; as, a salivary fistula; an anal fistula; a recto-vaginal fistula.
Fistular	 Hollow and cylindrical, like a pipe or reed.
Fistularia	 A genus of fishes, having the head prolonged into a tube, with the mouth at the extremity.
Fistularioid	 Like or pertaining to the genus Fistularia.
Fistulate	 To make hollow or become hollow like a fistula, or pipe.
Fistule	 A fistula.
Fistuliform	 Of a fistular form
Fistulose	 Formed like a fistula
Fistulous	 Having the form or nature of a fistula; as, a fistulous ulcer.
Fistulous	 Hollow, like a pipe or reed; fistulose.
Fit	 imp. & p. p. of Fight.
Fit	 In Old English, a song; a strain; a canto or portion of a ballad; a passus.
Fit	 Adapted to an end, object, or design; suitable by nature or by art; suited by character, qualitties, circumstances, education, etc.; qualified; competent; worthy.
Fit	 Prepared
Fit	 Conformed to a standart of duty, properiety, or taste; convenient; meet; becoming; proper.
Fitted	 of Fit
Fitting	 of Fit
Fit	 To make fit or suitable
Fit	 To bring to a required form and size; to shape aright; to adapt to a model; to adjust; -- said especially of the work of a carpenter, machinist, tailor, etc.
Fit	 To supply with something that is suitable or fit, or that is shaped and adjusted to the use required.
Fit	 To be suitable to; to answer the requirements of; to be correctly shaped and adjusted to; as, if the coat fits you, put it on.
Fit	 To be proper or becoming.
Fit	 To be adjusted to a particular shape or size; to suit; to be adapted; as, his coat fits very well.
Fit	 The quality of being fit
Fit	 The coincidence of parts that come in contact.
Fit	 The part of an object upon which anything fits tightly.
Fit	 A stroke or blow.
Fit	 A sudden and violent attack of a disorder; a stroke of disease, as of epilepsy or apoplexy, which produces convulsions or unconsciousness; a convulsion; a paroxysm; hence, a period of exacerbation of a disease; in general, an attack of disease; as, a fit of sickness.
Fit	 A mood of any kind which masters or possesses one for a time; a temporary, absorbing affection; a paroxysm; as, a fit melancholy, of passion, or of laughter.
Fit	 A passing humor; a caprice; a sudden and unusual effort, activity, or motion, followed by relaxation or insction; an impulse and irregular action.
Fit	 A darting point
Fitches	 of Fitch
Fitch	 A vetch.
Fitch	 A word found in the Authorized Version of the Bible, representing different Hebrew originals. In Isaiah xxviii. 25, 27, it means the black aromatic seeds of Nigella sativa, still used as a flavoring in the East. In Ezekiel iv. 9, the Revised Version now reads spelt.
Fitch	 The European polecat; also, its fur.
Fitche	 Sharpened to a point
Fitched	 Fitche.
Fitchet	 Alt. of Fitchew
Fitchew	 The European polecat (Putorius foetidus). See Polecat.
Fitchy	 Having fitches or vetches.
Fitchy	 Fitche.
Fitful	 Full of fits
Fithel	 Alt. of Fithul
Fithul	 A fiddle.
Fitly	 In a fit manner; suitably; properly; conveniently; as, a maxim fitly applied.
Fitment	 The act of fitting
Fitness	 The state or quality of being fit; as, the fitness of measures or laws; a person's fitness for office.
Fitt	 See 2d Fit.
Fittable	 Suitable
Fittedness	 The state or quality of being fitted
Fitter	 One who fits or makes to fit
Fitter	 One who tries on, and adjusts, articles of dress.
Fitter	 One who fits or adjusts the different parts of machinery to each other.
Fitter	 A coal broker who conducts the sales between the owner of a coal pit and the shipper.
Fitter	 A little piece
Fitting	 Anything used in fitting up
Fitting	 necessary fixtures or apparatus; as, the fittings of a church or study; gas fittings.
Fitting	 Fit
Fitweed	 A plant (Eryngium foetidum) supposed to be a remedy for fits.
Fitz	 A son; -- used in compound names, to indicate paternity, esp. of the illegitimate sons of kings and princes of the blood; as, Fitzroy, the son of the king; Fitzclarence, the son of the duke of Clarence.
Five	 Four and one added
Five	 The number next greater than four, and less than six; five units or objects.
Five	 A symbol representing this number, as 5, or V.
Five-finger	 See Cinquefoil.
Five-finger	 A starfish with five rays, esp. Asterias rubens.
Fivefold	 In fives
Five-leaf	 Cinquefoil
Five-leafed	 Alt. of Five-leaved
Five-leaved	 Having five leaflets, as the Virginia creeper.
Fiveling	 A compound or twin crystal consisting of five individuals.
Fives	 A kind of play with a ball against a wall, resembling tennis; -- so named because three fives, or fifteen, are counted to the game.
Fives	 A disease of the glands under the ear in horses
Five-twenties	 Five-twenty bonds of the United States (bearing six per cent interest), issued in 1862, '64, and '65, redeemable after five and payable in twenty years.
Fix	 Fixed
Fixed	 of Fix
Fixing	 of Fix
Fix	 To make firm, stable, or fast; to set or place permanently; to fasten immovably; to establish; to implant; to secure; to make definite.
Fix	 To hold steadily; to direct unwaveringly; to fasten, as the eye on an object, the attention on a speaker.
Fix	 To transfix
Fix	 To render (an impression) permanent by treating with such applications as will make it insensible to the action of light.
Fix	 To put in order; to arrange; to dispose of; to adjust; to set to rights; to set or place in the manner desired or most suitable; hence, to repair; as, to fix the clothes; to fix the furniture of a room.
Fix	 To line the hearth of (a puddling furnace) with fettling.
Fix	 To become fixed
Fix	 To become firm, so as to resist volatilization; to cease to flow or be fluid; to congeal; to become hard and malleable, as a metallic substance.
Fix	 A position of difficulty or embarassment
Fix	 fettling.
Fixable	 Capable of being fixed.
Fixation	 The act of fixing, or the state of being fixed.
Fixation	 The act of uniting chemically with a solid substance or in a solid form
Fixation	 The act or process of ceasing to be fluid and becoming firm.
Fixation	 A state of resistance to evaporation or volatilization by heat
Fixative	 That which serves to set or fix colors or drawings, as a mordant.
Fixed	 Securely placed or fastened
Fixed	 Stable
Fixedly	 In a fixed, stable, or constant manner.
Fixedness	 The state or quality of being fixed
Fixedness	 The quality of a body which resists evaporation or volatilization by heat; solidity; cohesion of parts; as, the fixedness of gold.
Fixidity	 Fixedness.
Fixing	 The act or process of making fixed.
Fixing	 That which is fixed
Fixing	 Arrangements
Fixity	 Fixedness; as, fixity of tenure; also, that which is fixed.
Fixity	 Coherence of parts.
Fixture	 That which is fixed or attached to something as a permanent appendage; as, the fixtures of a pump; the fixtures of a farm or of a dwelling, that is, the articles which a tenant may not take away.
Fixture	 State of being fixed
Fixture	 Anything of an accessory character annexed to houses and lands, so as to constitute a part of them. This term is, however, quite frequently used in the peculiar sense of personal chattels annexed to lands and tenements, but removable by the person annexing them, or his personal representatives. In this latter sense, the same things may be fixtures under some circumstances, and not fixtures under others.
Fixure	 Fixed position
Fizgig	 A fishgig.
Fizgig	 A firework, made of damp powder, which makes a fizzing or hissing noise when it explodes.
Fizgig	 A gadding, flirting girl.
Fizzed	 of Fizz
Fizzing	 of Fizz
Fizz	 To make a hissing sound, as a burning fuse.
Fizz	 A hissing sound; as, the fizz of a fly.
Fizzled	 of Fizzle
Fizzling	 of Fizzle
Fizzle	 To make a hissing sound.
Fizzle	 To make a ridiculous failure in an undertaking.
Fizzle	 A failure or abortive effort.
Fjord	 See Fiord.
Flabbergast	 To astonish; to strike with wonder, esp. by extraordinary statements.
Flabbergastation	 The state of being flabbergasted.
Flabbily	 In a flabby manner.
Flabbiness	 Quality or state of being flabby.
Flabby	 Yielding to the touch, and easily moved or shaken; hanging loose by its own weight; wanting firmness; flaccid; as, flabby flesh.
Flabel	 A fan.
Flabellate	 Flabelliform.
Flabellation	 The act of keeping fractured limbs cool by the use of a fan or some other contrivance.
Flabelliform	 Having the form of a fan
Flabellinerved	 Having many nerves diverging radiately from the base
Flabellum	 A fan; especially, the fan carried before the pope on state occasions, made in ostrich and peacock feathers.
Flabile	 Liable to be blown about.
Flaccid	 Yielding to pressure for want of firmness and stiffness; soft and weak; limber; lax; drooping; flabby; as, a flaccid muscle; flaccid flesh.
Flaccidity	 The state of being flaccid.
Flacker	 To flutter, as a bird.
Flacket	 A barrel-shaped bottle
Flagged	 of Flag
Flagging	 of Flag
Flag	 To hang loose without stiffness; to bend down, as flexible bodies; to be loose, yielding, limp.
Flag	 To droop; to grow spiritless; to lose vigor; to languish; as, the spirits flag; the streugth flags.
Flag	 To let droop; to suffer to fall, or let fall, into feebleness; as, to flag the wings.
Flag	 To enervate
Flag	 That which flags or hangs down loosely.
Flag	 A cloth usually bearing a device or devices and used to indicate nationality, party, etc., or to give or ask information; -- commonly attached to a staff to be waved by the wind; a standard; a banner; an ensign; the colors; as, the national flag; a military or a naval flag.
Flag	 A group of feathers on the lower part of the legs of certain hawks, owls, etc.
Flag	 A group of elongated wing feathers in certain hawks.
Flag	 The bushy tail of a dog, as of a setter.
Flag	 To signal to with a flag; as, to flag a train.
Flag	 To convey, as a message, by means of flag signals; as, to flag an order to troops or vessels at a distance.
Flag	 An aquatic plant, with long, ensiform leaves, belonging to either of the genera Iris and Acorus.
Flag	 To furnish or deck out with flags.
Flag	 A flat stone used for paving.
Flag	 Any hard, evenly stratified sandstone, which splits into layers suitable for flagstones.
Flag	 To lay with flags of flat stones.
Flagellant	 One of a fanatical sect which flourished in Europe in the 13th and 14th centuries, and maintained that flagellation was of equal virtue with baptism and the sacrament; -- called also disciplinant.
Flagellata	 An order of Infusoria, having one or two long, whiplike cilia, at the anterior end. It includes monads. See Infusoria, and Monad.
Flagellated	 of Flagellate
Flagellating	 of Flagellate
Flagellate	 To whip
Flagellate	 Flagelliform.
Flagellate	 Of or pertaining to the Flagellata.
Flagellation	 A beating or flogging
Flagellator	 One who practices flagellation
Flagelliform	 Shaped like a whiplash; long, slender, round, flexible, and (comming) tapering.
Flagellums	 of Flagellum
Flagella	 of Flagellum
Flagellum	 A young, flexible shoot of a plant; esp., the long trailing branch of a vine, or a slender branch in certain mosses.
Flagellum	 A long, whiplike cilium. See Flagellata.
Flagellum	 An appendage of the reproductive apparatus of the snail.
Flagellum	 A lashlike appendage of a crustacean, esp. the terminal ortion of the antennae and the epipodite of the maxilipeds. See Maxilliped.
Flageolet	 A small wooden pipe, having six or more holes, and a mouthpiece inserted at one end. It produces a shrill sound, softer than of the piccolo flute, and is said to have superseded the old recorder.
Flagginess	 The condition of being flaggy
Flagging	 A pavement or sidewalk of flagstones; flagstones, collectively.
Flagging	 Growing languid, weak, or spiritless; weakening; delaying.
Flaggy	 Weak
Flaggy	 Tasteless; insipid; as, a flaggy apple.
Flaggy	 Abounding with the plant called flag; as, a flaggy marsh.
Flagitate	 To importune
Flagitation	 Importunity
Flagitious	 Disgracefully or shamefully criminal; grossly wicked; scandalous; shameful; -- said of acts, crimes, etc.
Flagitious	 Guilty of enormous crimes
Flagitious	 Characterized by scandalous crimes or vices; as, flagitious times.
Flagmen	 of Flagman
Flagman	 One who makes signals with a flag.
Flagon	 A vessel with a narrow mouth, used for holding and conveying liquors. It is generally larger than a bottle, and of leather or stoneware rather than of glass.
Flagrance	 Flagrancy.
Flagrancies	 of Flagrancy
Flagrancy	 A burning
Flagrancy	 The condition or quality of being flagrant
Flagrant	 Flaming
Flagrant	 Actually in preparation, execution, or performance; carried on hotly; raging.
Flagrant	 Flaming into notice
Flagrantly	 In a flagrant manner.
Flagrate	 To burn.
Flagration	 A conflagration.
Flagship	 The vessel which carries the commanding officer of a fleet or squadron and flies his distinctive flag or pennant.
#NAME?
#NAME?
Flagstaff	 A staff on which a flag is hoisted.
Flagstone	 A flat stone used in paving, or any rock which will split into such stones. See Flag, a stone.
Flagworm	 A worm or grub found among flags and sedge.
Flail	 An instrument for threshing or beating grain from the ear by hand, consisting of a wooden staff or handle, at the end of which a stouter and shorter pole or club, called a swipe, is so hung as to swing freely.
Flail	 An ancient military weapon, like the common flail, often having the striking part armed with rows of spikes, or loaded.
Flaily	 Acting like a flail.
Flain	 p. p. of Flay.
Flake	 A paling
Flake	 A platform of hurdles, or small sticks made fast or interwoven, supported by stanchions, for drying codfish and other things.
Flake	 A small stage hung over a vessel's side, for workmen to stand on in calking, etc.
Flake	 A loose filmy mass or a thin chiplike layer of anything; a film; flock; lamina; layer; scale; as, a flake of snow, tallow, or fish.
Flake	 A little particle of lighted or incandescent matter, darted from a fire; a flash.
Flake	 A sort of carnation with only two colors in the flower, the petals having large stripes.
Flaked	 of Flake
Flaking	 of Flake
Flake	 To form into flakes.
Flake	 To separate in flakes
Flakiness	 The state of being flaky.
Flaky	 Consisting of flakes or of small, loose masses; lying, or cleaving off, in flakes or layers; flakelike.
Flam	 A freak or whim; also, a falsehood; a lie; an illusory pretext; deception; delusion.
Flammed	 of Flam
Flamming	 of Flam
Flam	 To deceive with a falsehood.
Flambeaux	 of Flambeau
Flambeaus	 of Flambeau
Flambeau	 A flaming torch, esp. one made by combining together a number of thick wicks invested with a quick-burning substance (anciently, perhaps, wax; in modern times, pitch or the like); hence, any torch.
Flamboyant	 Characterized by waving or flamelike curves, as in the tracery of windows, etc.; -- said of the later (15th century) French Gothic style.
Flamboyer	 A name given in the East and West Indies to certain trees with brilliant blossoms, probably species of Caesalpinia.
Flame	 A stream of burning vapor or gas, emitting light and heat; darting or streaming fire; a blaze; a fire.
Flame	 Burning zeal or passion
Flame	 Ardor of affection
Flame	 A person beloved
Flamed	 of Flame
Flaming	 of Flame
Flame	 To burn with a flame or blaze
Flame	 To burst forth like flame
Flame	 To kindle
Flame-colored	 Of the color of flame
Flameless	 Destitute of flame.
Flamelet	 A small flame.
Flammens	 of Flamen
Flamines	 of Flamen
Flamen	 A priest devoted to the service of a particular god, from whom he received a distinguishing epithet. The most honored were those of Jupiter, Mars, and Quirinus, called respectively Flamen Dialis, Flamen Martialis, and Flamen Quirinalis.
Flamineous	 Pertaining to a flamen
Flaming	 Emitting flames
Flaming	 Of the color of flame
Flaming	 Ardent; passionate; burning with zeal; irrepressibly earnest; as, a flaming proclomation or harangue.
Flamingly	 In a flaming manner.
Flamingoes	 of Flamingo
Flamingo	 Any bird of the genus Phoenicopterus. The flamingoes have webbed feet, very long legs, and a beak bent down as if broken. Their color is usually red or pink. The American flamingo is P. ruber; the European is P. antiquorum.
Flaminical	 Pertaining to a flamen.
Flammability	 The quality of being flammable
Flammable	 Inflammable.
Flammation	 The act of setting in a flame or blaze.
Flammeous	 Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, flame.
Flammiferous	 Producing flame.
Flammivomous	 Vomiting flames, as a volcano.
Flammulated	 Of a reddish color.
Flamy	 Flaming
Flanches	 of Flanch
Flanch	 A flange.
Flanch	 A bearing consisting of a segment of a circle encroaching on the field from the side.
Flanched	 Having flanches
Flanconade	 A thrust in the side.
Flaneur	 One who strolls about aimlessly
Flang	 A miner's two-pointed pick.
Flange	 An external or internal rib, or rim, for strength, as the flange of an iron beam; or for a guide, as the flange of a car wheel (see Car wheel.); or for attachment to another object, as the flange on the end of a pipe, steam cylinder, etc.
Flange	 A plate or ring to form a rim at the end of a pipe when fastened to the pipe.
Flanged	 of Flange
Flanging	 of Flange
Flange	 To make a flange on
Flange	 To be bent into a flange.
Flanged	 Having a flange or flanges; as, a flanged wheel.
Flank	 The fleshy or muscular part of the side of an animal, between the ribs and the hip. See Illust. of Beef.
Flank	 The side of an army, or of any division of an army, as of a brigade, regiment, or battalion; the extreme right or left; as, to attack an enemy in flank is to attack him on the side.
Flank	 That part of a bastion which reaches from the curtain to the face, and defends the curtain, the flank and face of the opposite bastion; any part of a work defending another by a fire along the outside of its parapet.
Flank	 The side of any building.
Flank	 That part of the acting surface of a gear wheel tooth that lies within the pitch line.
Flanked	 of Flank
Flanking	 of Flank
Flank	 To stand at the flank or side of
Flank	 To overlook or command the flank of; to secure or guard the flank of; to pass around or turn the flank of; to attack, or threaten to attack; the flank of.
Flank	 To border
Flank	 To be posted on the side.
Flanker	 One who, or that which, flanks, as a skirmisher or a body of troops sent out upon the flanks of an army toguard a line of march, or a fort projecting so as to command the side of an assailing body.
Flankered	 of Flanker
Flankering	 of Flanker
Flanker	 To defend by lateral fortifications.
Flanker	 To attack sideways.
Flannel	 A soft, nappy, woolen cloth, of loose texture.
Flanneled	 Covered or wrapped in flannel.
Flannen	 Made or consisting of flannel.
Flap	 Anything broad and limber that hangs loose, or that is attached by one side or end and is easily moved; as, the flap of a garment.
Flap	 A hinged leaf, as of a table or shutter.
Flap	 The motion of anything broad and loose, or a stroke or sound made with it; as, the flap of a sail or of a wing.
Flap	 A disease in the lips of horses.
Flapped	 of Flap
Flapping	 of Flap
Flap	 To beat with a flap
Flap	 To move, as something broad and flaplike; as, to flap the wings; to let fall, as the brim of a hat.
Flap	 To move as do wings, or as something broad or loose; to fly with wings beating the air.
Flap	 To fall and hang like a flap, as the brim of a hat, or other broad thing.
Flapdragon	 A game in which the players catch raisins out burning brandy, and swallow them blazing.
Flapdragon	 The thing thus caught and eaten.
Flapdragon	 To swallow whole, as a flapdragon; to devour.
Flap-eared	 Having broad, loose, dependent ears.
Flapjack	 A fklat cake turned on the griddle while cooking
Flapjack	 A fried dough cake containing fruit
Flap-mouthed	 Having broad, hangling lips.
Flapper	 One who, or that which, flaps.
Flapper	 See Flipper.
Flared	 of Flare
Flaring	 of Flare
Flare	 To burn with an unsteady or waving flame; as, the candle flares.
Flare	 To shine out with a sudden and unsteady light
Flare	 To shine out with gaudy colors
Flare	 To be exposed to too much light.
Flare	 To open or spread outwards; to project beyond the perpendicular; as, the sides of a bowl flare; the bows of a ship flare.
Flare	 An unsteady, broad, offensive light.
Flare	 A spreading outward; as, the flare of a fireplace.
Flare	 Leaf of lard.
Flare-up	 A sudden burst of anger or passion
Flaring	 That flares
Flaring	 Opening or speading outwards.
Flaringly	 In a flaring manner.
Flashed	 of Flash
Flashing	 of Flash
Flash	 To burst or break forth with a sudden and transient flood of flame and light; as, the lighting flashes vividly; the powder flashed.
Flash	 To break forth, as a sudden flood of light; to burst instantly and brightly on the sight; to show a momentary brilliancy; to come or pass like a flash.
Flash	 To burst forth like a sudden flame
Flash	 To send out in flashes
Flash	 To convey as by a flash; to light up, as by a sudden flame or light; as, to flash a message along the wires; to flash conviction on the mind.
Flash	 To cover with a thin layer, as objects of glass with glass of a different color. See Flashing, n., 3 (b).
Flash	 To trick up in a showy manner.
Flash	 To strike and throw up large bodies of water from the surface
Flashes	 of Flash
Flash	 A sudden burst of light; a flood of light instantaneously appearing and disappearing; a momentary blaze; as, a flash of lightning.
Flash	 A sudden and brilliant burst, as of wit or genius; a momentary brightness or show.
Flash	 The time during which a flash is visible
Flash	 A preparation of capsicum, burnt sugar, etc., for coloring and giving a fictious strength to liquors.
Flash	 Showy, but counterfeit; cheap, pretentious, and vulgar; as, flash jewelry; flash finery.
Flash	 Wearing showy, counterfeit ornaments; vulgarly pretentious; as, flash people; flash men or women; -- applied especially to thieves, gamblers, and prostitutes that dress in a showy way and wear much cheap jewelry.
Flash	 Slang or cant of thieves and prostitutes.
Flash	 A pool.
Flash	 A reservoir and sluiceway beside a navigable stream, just above a shoal, so that the stream may pour in water as boats pass, and thus bear them over the shoal.
Flashboard	 A board placed temporarily upon a milldam, to raise the water in the pond above its usual level; a flushboard.
Flasher	 One who, or that which, flashes.
Flasher	 A man of more appearance of wit than reality.
Flasher	 A large sparoid fish of the Atlantic coast and all tropical seas (Lobotes Surinamensis).
Flasher	 The European red-backed shrike (Lanius collurio)
Flashily	 In a flashy manner
Flashiness	 The quality of being flashy.
Flashing	 The creation of an artifical flood by the sudden letting in of a body of water
Flashing	 Pieces of metal, built into the joints of a wall, so as to lap over the edge of the gutters or to cover the edge of the roofing; also, similar pieces used to cover the valleys of roofs of slate, shingles, or the like. By extension, the metal covering of ridges and hips of roofs; also, in the United States, the protecting of angles and breaks in walls of frame houses with waterproof material, tarred paper, or the like. Cf. Filleting.
Flashing	 The reheating of an article at the furnace aperture during manufacture to restore its plastic condition; esp., the reheating of a globe of crown glass to allow it to assume a flat shape as it is rotated.
Flashing	 A mode of covering transparent white glass with a film of colored glass.
Flashy	 Dazzling for a moment
Flashy	 Fiery
Flashy	 Showy; gay; gaudy; as, a flashy dress.
Flashy	 Without taste or spirit.
Flask	 A small bottle-shaped vessel for holding fluids; as, a flask of oil or wine.
Flask	 A narrow-necked vessel of metal or glass, used for various purposes; as of sheet metal, to carry gunpowder in; or of wrought iron, to contain quicksilver; or of glass, to heat water in, etc.
Flask	 A bed in a gun carriage.
Flask	 The wooden or iron frame which holds the sand, etc., forming the mold used in a foundry; it consists of two or more parts; viz., the cope or top; sometimes, the cheeks, or middle part; and the drag, or bottom part. When there are one or more cheeks, the flask is called a three part flask, four part flask, etc.
Flasket	 A long, shallow basket, with two handles.
Flasket	 A small flask.
Flasket	 A vessel in which viands are served.
Flat	 Having an even and horizontal surface, or nearly so, without prominences or depressions; level without inclination; plane.
Flat	 Lying at full length, or spread out, upon the ground; level with the ground or earth; prostrate; as, to lie flat on the ground; hence, fallen; laid low; ruined; destroyed.
Flat	 Wanting relief
Flat	 Tasteless; stale; vapid; insipid; dead; as, fruit or drink flat to the taste.
Flat	 Unanimated; dull; uninteresting; without point or spirit; monotonous; as, a flat speech or composition.
Flat	 Lacking liveliness of commercial exchange and dealings; depressed; dull; as, the market is flat.
Flat	 Clear
Flat	 Below the true pitch; hence, as applied to intervals, minor, or lower by a half step; as, a flat seventh; A flat.
Flat	 Not sharp or shrill; not acute; as, a flat sound.
Flat	 Sonant; vocal; -- applied to any one of the sonant or vocal consonants, as distinguished from a nonsonant (or sharp) consonant.
Flat	 In a flat manner
Flat	 Without allowance for accrued interest.
Flat	 A level surface, without elevation, relief, or prominences; an extended plain; specifically, in the United States, a level tract along the along the banks of a river; as, the Mohawk Flats.
Flat	 A level tract lying at little depth below the surface of water, or alternately covered and left bare by the tide; a shoal; a shallow; a strand.
Flat	 Something broad and flat in form
Flat	 A flat-bottomed boat, without keel, and of small draught.
Flat	 A straw hat, broad-brimmed and low-crowned.
Flat	 A car without a roof, the body of which is a platform without sides; a platform car.
Flat	 A platform on wheel, upon which emblematic designs, etc., are carried in processions.
Flat	 The flat part, or side, of anything; as, the broad side of a blade, as distinguished from its edge.
Flat	 A floor, loft, or story in a building; especially, a floor of a house, which forms a complete residence in itself.
Flat	 A horizontal vein or ore deposit auxiliary to a main vein; also, any horizontal portion of a vein not elsewhere horizontal.
Flat	 A dull fellow
Flat	 A character [/] before a note, indicating a tone which is a half step or semitone lower.
Flat	 A homaloid space or extension.
Flatted	 of Flat
Flatting	 of Flat
Flat	 To make flat
Flat	 To render dull, insipid, or spiritless; to depress.
Flat	 To depress in tone, as a musical note; especially, to lower in pitch by half a tone.
Flat	 To become flat, or flattened; to sink or fall to an even surface.
Flat	 To fall form the pitch.
Flatbill	 Any bird of the genus Flatyrynchus. They belong to the family of flycatchers.
Flatboat	 A boat with a flat bottom and square ends; -- used for the transportation of bulky freight, especially in shallow waters.
Flat-bottomed	 Having an even lower surface or bottom; as, a flat-bottomed boat.
Flat-cap	 A kind of low-crowned cap formerly worn by all classes in England, and continued in London after disuse elsewhere; -- hence, a citizen of London.
Flatfish	 Any fish of the family Pleuronectidae; esp., the winter flounder (Pleuronectes Americanus). The flatfishes have the body flattened, swim on the side, and have eyes on one side, as the flounder, turbot, and halibut. See Flounder.
Flat	 foot A foot in which the arch of the instep is flattened so that the entire sole of the foot rests upon the ground; also, the deformity, usually congential, exhibited by such a foot; splayfoot.
Flat-footed	 Having a flat foot, with little or no arch of the instep.
Flat-footed	 Firm-footed
Flathead	 Characterized by flatness of head, especially that produced by artificial means, as a certain tribe of American Indians.
Flathead	 A Chinook Indian. See Chinook, n., 1.
Flat-headed	 Having a head with a flattened top; as, a flat-headed nail.
Flatiron	 An iron with a flat, smooth surface for ironing clothes.
Flative	 Producing wind
Flating	 With the flat side, as of a sword; flatlong; in a prostrate position.
Flatlong	 With the flat side downward
Flatly	 In a flat manner; evenly; horizontally; without spirit; dully; frigidly; peremptorily; positively, plainly.
Flatness	 The quality or state of being flat.
Flatness	 Eveness of surface
Flatness	 Want of vivacity or spirit
Flatness	 Want of variety or flavor
Flatness	 Depression of tone
Flatour	 A flatterer.
Flattened	 of Flatten
Flattening	 of Flatten
Flatten	 To reduce to an even surface or one approaching evenness
Flatten	 To throw down; to bring to the ground; to prostrate; hence, to depress; to deject; to dispirit.
Flatten	 To make vapid or insipid
Flatten	 To lower the pitch of
Flatten	 To become or grow flat, even, depressed dull, vapid, spiritless, or depressed below pitch.
Flatter	 One who, or that which, makes flat or flattens.
Flatter	 A flat-faced fulling hammer.
Flatter	 A drawplate with a narrow, rectangular orifice, for drawing flat strips, as watch springs, etc.
Flattered	 of Flatter
Flattering	 of Flatter
Flatter	 To treat with praise or blandishments; to gratify or attempt to gratify the self-love or vanity of, esp. by artful and interested commendation or attentions; to blandish; to cajole; to wheedle.
Flatter	 To raise hopes in; to encourage or favorable, but sometimes unfounded or deceitful, representations.
Flatter	 To portray too favorably; to give a too favorable idea of; as, his portrait flatters him.
Flatter	 To use flattery or insincere praise.
Flatterer	 One who flatters.
Flattering	 That flatters (in the various senses of the verb); as, a flattering speech.
Flatteringly	 With flattery.
Flatteries	 of Flattery
Flattery	 The act or practice of flattering; the act of pleasing by artiful commendation or compliments; adulation; false, insincere, or excessive praise.
Flatting	 The process or operation of making flat, as a cylinder of glass by opening it out.
Flatting	 A mode of painting,in which the paint, being mixed with turpentine, leaves the work without gloss.
Flatting	 A method of preserving gilding unburnished, by touching with size.
Flatting	 The process of forming metal into sheets by passing it between rolls.
Flattish	 Somewhat flat.
Flatulence	 Alt. of Flatlency
Flatlency	 The state or quality of being flatulent.
Flatulent	 Affected with flatus or gases generated in the alimentary canal
Flatulent	 Generating, or tending to generate, wind in the stomach.
Flatulent	 Turgid with flatus; as, a flatulent tumor.
Flatulent	 Pretentious without substance or reality; puffy; empty; vain; as, a flatulent vanity.
Flatulently	 In a flatulent manner
Flatuosity	 Flatulence.
Flatuous	 Windy
Flatuses	 of Flatus
Flatus	 of Flatus
Flatus	 A breath
Flatus	 Wind or gas generated in the stomach or other cavities of the body.
Flatware	 Articles for the table, as china or silverware, that are more or less flat, as distinguished from hollow ware.
Flatwise	 With the flat side downward, or next to another object; not edgewise.
Flatworm	 Any worm belonging to the Plathelminthes; also, sometimes applied to the planarians.
Flaundrish	 Flemish.
Flaunted	 of Flaunt
Flaunting	 of Flaunt
Flaunt	 To throw or spread out; to flutter; to move ostentatiously; as, a flaunting show.
Flaunt	 To display ostentatiously
Flaunt	 Anything displayed for show.
Flauntingly	 In a flaunting way.
Flautist	 A player on the flute
Flauto	 A flute.
Flavaniline	 A yellow, crystalline, organic dyestuff, C16H14N2, of artifical production. It is a strong base, and is a complex derivative of aniline and quinoline.
Flavescent	 Turning yellow
Flavicomous	 Having yellow hair.
Flavin	 A yellow, vegetable dyestuff, resembling quercitron.
Flavine	 A yellow, crystalline, organic base, C13H12N2O, obtained artificially.
Flavol	 A yellow, crystalline substance, obtained from anthraquinone, and regarded as a hydroxyl derivative of it.
Flavor	 That quality of anything which affects the smell; odor; fragrances; as, the flavor of a rose.
Flavor	 That quality of anything which affects the taste; that quality which gratifies the palate; relish; zest; savor; as, the flavor of food or drink.
Flavor	 That which imparts to anything a peculiar odor or taste, gratifying to the sense of smell, or the nicer perceptions of the palate; a substance which flavors.
Flavor	 That quality which gives character to any of the productions of literature or the fine arts.
Flavored	 of Flavor
Flavoring	 of Flavor
Flavor	 To give flavor to; to add something (as salt or a spice) to, to give character or zest.
Flavored	 Having a distinct flavor; as, high-flavored wine.
Flavorles	 Without flavor
Flavorous	 Imparting flavor
Flavous	 Yellow.
Flaw	 A crack or breach; a gap or fissure; a defect of continuity or cohesion; as, a flaw in a knife or a vase.
Flaw	 A defect; a fault; as, a flaw in reputation; a flaw in a will, in a deed, or in a statute.
Flaw	 A sudden burst of noise and disorder
Flaw	 A sudden burst or gust of wind of short duration.
Flawed	 of Flaw
Flawing	 of Flaw
Flaw	 To crack
Flaw	 To break
Flawless	 Free from flaws.
Flawn	 A sort of flat custard or pie.
Flawter	 To scrape o/ pare, as a skin.
Flawy	 Full of flaws or cracks
Flawy	 Subject to sudden flaws or gusts of wind.
Flax	 A plant of the genus Linum, esp. the L. usitatissimum, which has a single, slender stalk, about a foot and a half high, with blue flowers. The fiber of the bark is used for making thread and cloth, called linen, cambric, lawn, lace, etc. Linseed oil is expressed from the seed.
Flax	 The skin or fibrous part of the flax plant, when broken and cleaned by hatcheling or combing.
Flaxen	 Made of flax; resembling flax or its fibers; of the color of flax; of a light soft straw color; fair and flowing, like flax or tow; as, flaxen thread; flaxen hair.
Flax-plant	 A plant in new Zealand (Phormium tenax), allied to the lilies and aloes. The leaves are two inches wide and several feet long, and furnish a fiber which is used for making ropes, mats, and coarse cloth.
Flaxseed	 The seed of the flax
Flaxweed	 See Toadflax.
Flaxy	 Like flax
Flayed	 of Flay
Flaying	 of Flay
Flay	 To skin; to strip off the skin or surface of; as, to flay an ox; to flay the green earth.
Flayer	 One who strips off the skin.
Flea	 To flay.
Flea	 An insect belonging to the genus Pulex, of the order Aphaniptera. Fleas are destitute of wings, but have the power of leaping energetically. The bite is poisonous to most persons. The human flea (Pulex irritans), abundant in Europe, is rare in America, where the dog flea (P. canis) takes its place. See Aphaniptera, and Dog flea. See Illustration in Appendix.
Fleabane	 One of various plants, supposed to have efficacy in driving away fleas. They belong, for the most part, to the genera Conyza, Erigeron, and Pulicaria.
Flea-beetle	 A small beetle of the family Halticidae, of many species. They have strong posterior legs and leap like fleas. The turnip flea-beetle (Phyllotreta vittata) and that of the grapevine (Graptodera chalybea) are common injurious species.
Flea-bite	 The bite of a flea, or the red spot caused by the bite.
Flea-bite	 A trifling wound or pain, like that of the bite of a flea.
Flea-bitten	 Bitten by a flea; as, a flea-bitten face.
Flea-bitten	 White, flecked with minute dots of bay or sorrel; -- said of the color of a horse.
Fleagh	 imp. of Fly.
Fleak	 A flake
Fleaking	 A light covering of reeds, over which the main covering is laid, in thatching houses.
Flea-louse	 A jumping plant louse of the family Psyllidae, of many species. That of the pear tree is Psylla pyri.
Fleam	 A sharp instrument used for opening veins, lancing gums, etc.; a kind of lancet.
Fleamy	 Bloody
Flear	 See Fleer.
Fleawort	 An herb used in medicine (Plantago Psyllium), named from the shape of its seeds.
Fleche	 A simple fieldwork, consisting of two faces forming a salient angle pointing outward and open at the gorge.
Fleck	 A flake; also, a lock, as of wool.
Fleck	 A spot
Flecked	 of Fleck
Flecking	 of Fleck
Fleck	 To spot
Flecker	 To fleck.
Fleckless	 Without spot or blame.
Flection	 The act of bending, or state of being bent.
Flection	 The variation of words by declension, comparison, or conjugation; inflection.
Flectional	 Capable of, or pertaining to, flection or inflection.
Flector	 A flexor.
Fled	 imp. & p. p. of Flee.
Fledge	 Feathered
Fledged	 of Fledge
Fledging	 of Fledge
Fledge	 To furnish with feathers
Fledge	 To furnish or adorn with any soft covering.
Fledgeling	 A young bird just fledged.
Fled	 of Flee
Fleeing	 of Flee
Flee	 To run away, as from danger or evil; to avoid in an alarmed or cowardly manner; to hasten off; -- usually with from. This is sometimes omitted, making the verb transitive.
Fleece	 The entire coat of wood that covers a sheep or other similar animal; also, the quantity shorn from a sheep, or animal, at one time.
Fleece	 Any soft woolly covering resembling a fleece.
Fleece	 The fine web of cotton or wool removed by the doffing knife from the cylinder of a carding machine.
Fleeced	 of Fleece
Fleecing	 of Fleece
Fleece	 To deprive of a fleece, or natural covering of wool.
Fleece	 To strip of money or other property unjustly, especially by trickery or fraud; to bring to straits by oppressions and exactions.
Fleece	 To spread over as with wool.
Fleeced	 Furnished with a fleece; as, a sheep is well fleeced.
Fleeced	 Stripped of a fleece
Fleeceless	 Without a fleece.
Fleecer	 One who fleeces or strips unjustly, especially by trickery or fraund.
Fleecy	 Covered with, made of, or resembling, a fleece.
Fleen	 Obs. pl. of Flea.
Fleer	 One who flees.
Fleered	 of Fleer
Fleering	 of Fleer
Fleer	 To make a wry face in contempt, or to grin in scorn; to deride; to sneer; to mock; to gibe; as, to fleer and flout.
Fleer	 To grin with an air of civility
Fleer	 To mock
Flear	 A word or look of derision or mockery.
Flear	 A grin of civility
Fleerer	 One who fleers.
Fleeringly	 In a fleering manner.
Fleeted	 of Fleet
Fleeting	 of Fleet
Fleet	 To sail
Fleet	 To fly swiftly
Fleet	 To slip on the whelps or the barrel of a capstan or windlass
Fleet	 To pass over rapidly; to skin the surface of; as, a ship that fleets the gulf.
Fleet	 To hasten over; to cause to pass away lighty, or in mirth and joy.
Fleet	 To draw apart the blocks of
Fleet	 To cause to slip down the barrel of a capstan or windlass, as a rope or chain.
Fleet	 Swift in motion
Fleet	 Light; superficially thin; not penetrating deep, as soil.
Fleet	 A number of vessels in company, especially war vessels; also, the collective naval force of a country, etc.
Fleet	 A flood; a creek or inlet; a bay or estuary; a river; -- obsolete, except as a place name, -- as Fleet Street in London.
Fleet	 A former prison in London, which originally stood near a stream, the Fleet (now filled up).
Fleet	 To take the cream from
Fleeten	 Fleeted or skimmed milk.
Fleet-foot	 Swift of foot.
Fleeting	 Passing swiftly away; not durable; transient; transitory; as, the fleeting hours or moments.
Fleetingly	 In a fleeting manner
Fleetings	 A mixture of buttermilk and boiling whey
Fleetly	 In a fleet manner
Fleetness	 Swiftness; rapidity; velocity; celerity; speed; as, the fleetness of a horse or of time.
Fleigh	 imp. of Fly.
Fleme	 To banish
Flemer	 One who, or that which, banishes or expels.
Fleming	 A native or inhabitant of Flanders.
Flemish	 Pertaining to Flanders, or the Flemings.
Flemish	 The language or dialect spoken by the Flemings; also, collectively, the people of Flanders.
Flench	 Same as Flence.
Flense	 To strip the blubber or skin from, as from a whale, seal, etc.
Flesh	 The aggregate of the muscles, fat, and other tissues which cover the framework of bones in man and other animals; especially, the muscles.
Flesh	 Animal food, in distinction from vegetable; meat; especially, the body of beasts and birds used as food, as distinguished from fish.
Flesh	 The human body, as distinguished from the soul; the corporeal person.
Flesh	 The human eace
Flesh	 Human nature
Flesh	 In a good sense, tenderness of feeling; gentleness.
Flesh	 In a bad sense, tendency to transient or physical pleasure; desire for sensual gratification; carnality.
Flesh	 The character under the influence of animal propensities or selfish passions
Flesh	 Kindred
Flesh	 The soft, pulpy substance of fruit; also, that part of a root, fruit, and the like, which is fit to be eaten.
Fleshed	 of Flesh
Fleshing	 of Flesh
Flesh	 To feed with flesh, as an incitement to further exertion; to initiate; -- from the practice of training hawks and dogs by feeding them with the first game they take, or other flesh. Hence, to use upon flesh (as a murderous weapon) so as to draw blood, especially for the first time.
Flesh	 To glut; to satiate; hence, to harden, to accustom.
Flesh	 To remove flesh, membrance, etc., from, as from hides.
Fleshed	 Corpulent
Fleshed	 Glutted
Flesher	 A butcher.
Flesher	 A two-handled, convex, blunt-edged knife, for scraping hides; a fleshing knife.
Fleshhood	 The state or condition of having a form of flesh
Fleshiness	 The state of being fleshy
Fleshings	 Flesh-colored tights, worn by actors dancers.
Fleshless	 Destitute of flesh
Fleshliness	 The state of being fleshly
Fleshing	 A person devoted to fleshly things.
Fleshly	 Of or pertaining to the flesh
Fleshly	 Animal
Fleshly	 Human
Fleshly	 Carnal
Fleshly	 In a fleshly manner
Fleshment	 The act of fleshing, or the excitement attending a successful beginning.
Fleshmonger	 One who deals in flesh; hence, a pimp; a procurer; a pander.
Fleshpot	 A pot or vessel in which flesh is cooked
Fleshpot	 plenty
Fleshquake	 A quaking or trembling of the flesh
Fleshy	 Full of, or composed of, flesh; plump; corpulent; fat; gross.
Fleshy	 Human.
Fleshy	 Composed of firm pulp; succulent; as, the houseleek, cactus, and agave are fleshy plants.
Flet	 Skimmed.
Fletched	 of Fletch
Fletching	 of Fletch
Fletch	 To feather, as an arrow.
Fletcher	 One who fletches of feathers arrows
Flete	 To float
Fletiferous	 Producing tears.
Fleurs-de-lis	 of Fleur-de-lis
Fleur-de-lis	 The iris. See Flower-de-luce.
Fleur-de-lis	 A conventional flower suggested by the iris, and having a form which fits it for the terminal decoration of a scepter, the ornaments of a crown, etc. It is also a heraldic bearing, and is identified with the royal arms and adornments of France.
Fleury	 Finished at the ends with fleurs-de-lis
Flew	 imp. of Fly.
Flewed	 Having large flews.
Flews	 The pendulous or overhanging lateral parts of the upper lip of dogs, especially prominent in hounds; -- called also chaps. See Illust. of Bloodhound.
Flexed	 of Flex
Flexing	 of Flex
Flex	 To bend; as, to flex the arm.
Flex	 Flax.
Flexanimous	 Having power to change the mind.
Flexibility	 The state or quality of being flexible; flexibleness; pliancy; pliability; as, the flexibility of strips of hemlock, hickory, whalebone or metal, or of rays of light.
Flexible	 Capable of being flexed or bent; admitting of being turned, bowed, or twisted, without breaking; pliable; yielding to pressure; not stiff or brittle.
Flexible	 Willing or ready to yield to the influence of others
Flexible	 Capable or being adapted or molded; plastic,; as, a flexible language.
Flexicostate	 Having bent or curved ribs.
Flexile	 Flexible
Flexion	 The act of flexing or bending
Flexion	 A bending
Flexion	 Syntactical change of form of words, as by declension or conjugation; inflection.
Flexion	 The bending of a limb or joint
Flexor	 A muscle which bends or flexes any part; as, the flexors of the arm or the hand; -- opposed to extensor.
Flexuose	 Flexuous.
Flexuous	 Having turns, windings, or flexures.
Flexuous	 Having alternate curvatures in opposite directions
Flexuous	 Wavering
Flexural	 Of, pertaining to, or resulting from, flexure; of the nature of, or characterized by, flexure; as, flexural elasticity.
Flexure	 The act of flexing or bending; a turning or curving; flexion; hence, obsequious bowing or bending.
Flexure	 A turn
Flexure	 The last joint, or bend, of the wing of a bird.
Flexure	 The small distortion of an astronomical instrument caused by the weight of its parts
Flibbergib	 A sycophant.
Flibbertigibbet	 An imp.
Flibustier	 A buccaneer
Flicked	 of Flick
Flicking	 of Flick
Flick	 To whip lightly or with a quick jerk; to flap; as, to flick a horse; to flick the dirt from boots.
Flick	 A flitch; as, a flick of bacon.
Flickered	 of Flicker
Flickering	 of Flicker
Flicker	 To flutter
Flicker	 To waver unsteadily, like a flame in a current of air, or when about to expire; as, the flickering light.
Flicker	 The act of wavering or of fluttering; flucuation; sudden and brief increase of brightness; as, the last flicker of the dying flame.
Flicker	 The golden-winged woodpecker (Colaptes aurutus); -- so called from its spring note. Called also yellow-hammer, high-holder, pigeon woodpecker, and yucca.
Flickeringly	 In a flickering manner.
Flickermouse	 See Flittermouse.
Flidge	 Fledged
Flidge	 To become fledged
Flier	 One who flies or flees
Flier	 A fly. See Fly, n., 9, and 13 (b).
Flier	 See Flyer, n., 5.
Flier	 See Flyer, n., 4.
Flight	 The act or flying
Flight	 The act of fleeing; the act of running away, to escape or expected evil; hasty departure.
Flight	 Lofty elevation and excursion;a mounting; a soa/ing; as, a flight of imagination, ambition, folly.
Flight	 A number of beings or things passing through the air together; especially, a flock of birds flying in company; the birds that fly or migrate together; the birds produced in one season; as, a flight of arrows.
Flight	 A series of steps or stairs from one landing to another.
Flight	 A kind of arrow for the longbow; also, the sport of shooting with it. See Shaft.
Flight	 The husk or glume of oats.
Flighted	 Taking flight
Flighted	 Feathered
Flighter	 A horizontal vane revolving over the surface of wort in a cooler, to produce a circular current in the liquor.
Flightily	 In a flighty manner.
Flightiness	 The state or quality of being flighty.
Flight-shot	 The distance to which an arrow or flight may be shot; bowshot, -- about the fifth of a mile.
Flighty	 Fleeting
Flighty	 Indulging in flights, or wild and unrestrained sallies, of imagination, humor, caprice, etc.; given to disordered fancies and extravagant conduct; volatile; giddy; eccentric; slighty delirious.
Flimflam	 A freak
Flimsily	 In a flimsy manner.
Flimsiness	 The state or quality of being flimsy.
Flimsy	 Weak; feeble; limp; slight; vain; without strength or solidity; of loose and unsubstantial structure; without reason or plausibility; as, a flimsy argument, excuse, objection.
Flimsy	 Thin or transfer paper.
Flimsy	 A bank note.
Flinched	 of Flinch
Flinching	 of Flinch
Flinch	 To withdraw from any suffering or undertaking, from pain or danger; to fail in doing or perserving; to show signs of yielding or of suffering; to shrink; to wince; as, one of the parties flinched from the combat.
Flinch	 To let the foot slip from a ball, when attempting to give a tight croquet.
Flinch	 The act of flinching.
Flincher	 One who flinches or fails.
Flinchingly	 In a flinching manner.
Flindermouse	 A bat
Flinders	 Small pieces or splinters
Flung	 of Fling
Flinging	 of Fling
Fling	 To cast, send, to throw from the hand; to hurl; to dart; to emit with violence as if thrown from the hand; as, to fing a stone into the pond.
Fling	 To shed forth
Fling	 To throw; to hurl; to throw off or down; to prostrate; hence, to baffle; to defeat; as, to fling a party in litigation.
Fling	 To throw; to wince; to flounce; as, the horse began to kick and fling.
Fling	 To cast in the teeth; to utter abusive language; to sneer; as, the scold began to flout and fling.
Fling	 To throw one's self in a violent or hasty manner
Fling	 A cast from the hand; a throw; also, a flounce; a kick; as, the fling of a horse.
Fling	 A severe or contemptuous remark
Fling	 A kind of dance; as, the Highland fling.
Fling	 A trifing matter
Flingdust	 One who kicks up the dust
Flinger	 One who flings
Flint	 A massive, somewhat impure variety of quartz, in color usually of a gray to brown or nearly black, breaking with a conchoidal fracture and sharp edge. It is very hard, and strikes fire with steel.
Flint	 A piece of flint for striking fire; -- formerly much used, esp. in the hammers of gun locks.
Flint	 Anything extremely hard, unimpressible, and unyielding, like flint.
Flint	 glass A soft, heavy, brilliant glass, consisting essentially of a silicate of lead and potassium. It is used for tableware, and for optical instruments, as prisms, its density giving a high degree of dispersive power; -- so called, because formerly the silica was obtained from pulverized flints. Called also crystal glass. Cf. Glass.
Flint-hearted	 Hard-hearted.
Flintiness	 The state or quality of being flinty
Flintlock	 A lock for a gun or pistol, having a flint fixed in the hammer, which on striking the steel ignites the priming.
Flintlock	 A hand firearm fitted with a flintlock; esp., the old-fashioned musket of European and other armies.
Flintware	 A superior kind of earthenware into whose composition flint enters largely.
Flintwood	 An Australian name for the very hard wood of the Eucalyptus piluralis.
Flinty	 Consisting of, composed of, abounding in, or resembling, flint; as, a flinty rock; flinty ground; a flinty heart.
Flip	 A mixture of beer, spirit, etc., stirred and heated by a hot iron.
Flipped	 of Flip
Flipping	 of Flip
Flip	 To toss or fillip; as, to flip up a cent.
Flipe	 To turn inside out, or with the leg part back over the foot, as a stocking in pulling off or for putting on.
Flip-flap	 The repeated stroke of something long and loose.
Flip-flap	 With repeated strokes and noise, as of something long and loose.
Flippancy	 The state or quality of being flippant.
Flippant	 Of smooth, fluent, and rapid speech; speaking with ease and rapidity; having a voluble tongue; talkative.
Flippant	 Speaking fluently and confidently, without knowledge or consideration; empty; trifling; inconsiderate; pert; petulant.
Flippant	 A flippant person.
Flippantly	 In a flippant manner.
Flippantness	 State or quality of being flippant.
Flipper	 A broad flat limb used for swimming, as those of seals, sea turtles, whales, etc.
Flipper	 The hand.
Flirted	 of Flirt
Flirting	 of Flirt
Flirt	 To throw with a jerk or quick effort; to fling suddenly; as, they flirt water in each other's faces; he flirted a glove, or a handkerchief.
Flirt	 To toss or throw about; to move playfully to and fro; as, to flirt a fan.
Flirt	 To jeer at
Flirt	 To run and dart about; to act with giddiness, or from a desire to attract notice; especially, to play the coquette; to play at courtship; to coquet; as, they flirt with the young men.
Flirt	 To utter contemptuous language, with an air of disdain; to jeer or gibe.
Flirt	 A sudden jerk; a quick throw or cast; a darting motion; hence, a jeer.
Flirt	 One who flirts; esp., a woman who acts with giddiness, or plays at courtship; a coquette; a pert girl.
Flirt	 Pert
Flirtation	 Playing at courtship
Flirt-gill	 A woman of light behavior
Flirtigig	 A wanton, pert girl.
Flirtingly	 In a flirting manner.
Flisk	 To frisk
Flisk	 A caper
Flitted	 of Flit
Flitting	 of Flit
Flit	 To move with celerity through the air; to fly away with a rapid motion; to dart along; to fleet; as, a bird flits away; a cloud flits along.
Flit	 To flutter
Flit	 To pass rapidly, as a light substance, from one place to another; to remove; to migrate.
Flit	 To remove from one place or habitation to another.
Flit	 To be unstable
Flit	 Nimble
Flitches	 of Flitch
Flitch	 The side of a hog salted and cured
Flitch	 One of several planks, smaller timbers, or iron plates, which are secured together, side by side, to make a large girder or built beam.
Flitch	 The outside piece of a sawed log
Flite	 To scold
Flitter	 To flutter.
Flitter	 To flutter; to move quickly; as, to flitter the cards.
Flitter	 A rag
Flittermouse	 A bat; -- called also flickermouse, flindermouse, and flintymouse.
Flittern	 A term applied to the bark obtained from young oak trees.
Flittiness	 Unsteadiness
Flitting	 A flying with lightness and celerity
Flitting	 A removal from one habitation to another.
Flittingly	 In a flitting manner.
Flitty	 Unstable
Flix	 Down
Flix	 The flux
Flon	 of Flo
Flo	 An arrow.
Float	 Anything which floats or rests on the surface of a fluid, as to sustain weight, or to indicate the height of the surface, or mark the place of, something.
Float	 A mass of timber or boards fastened together, and conveyed down a stream by the current; a raft.
Float	 The hollow, metallic ball of a self-acting faucet, which floats upon the water in a cistern or boiler.
Float	 The cork or quill used in angling, to support the bait line, and indicate the bite of a fish.
Float	 Anything used to buoy up whatever is liable to sink
Float	 A float board. See Float board (below).
Float	 A contrivance for affording a copious stream of water to the heated surface of an object of large bulk, as an anvil or die.
Float	 The act of flowing
Float	 A quantity of earth, eighteen feet square and one foot deep.
Float	 The trowel or tool with which the floated coat of plastering is leveled and smoothed.
Float	 A polishing block used in marble working
Float	 A single-cut file for smoothing
Float	 A coal cart.
Float	 The sea; a wave. See Flote, n.
Floated	 of Float
Floating	 of Float
Float	 To rest on the surface of any fluid
Float	 To move quietly or gently on the water, as a raft; to drift along; to move or glide without effort or impulse on the surface of a fluid, or through the air.
Float	 To cause to float; to cause to rest or move on the surface of a fluid; as, the tide floated the ship into the harbor.
Float	 To flood
Float	 To pass over and level the surface of with a float while the plastering is kept wet.
Float	 To support and sustain the credit of, as a commercial scheme or a joint-stock company, so as to enable it to go into, or continue in, operation.
Floatable	 That may be floated.
Floatage	 Same as Flotage.
Floatation	 See Flotation.
Floater	 One who floats or swims.
Floater	 A float for indicating the height of a liquid surface.
Floating	 Buoyed upon or in a fluid; a, the floating timbers of a wreck; floating motes in the air.
Floating	 Free or lose from the usual attachment; as, the floating ribs in man and some other animals.
Floating	 Not funded; not fixed, invested, or determined; as, floating capital; a floating debt.
Floating	 Floating threads. See Floating threads, above.
Floating	 The second coat of three-coat plastering.
Floatingly	 In a floating manner.
Floaty	 Swimming on the surface
Flobert	 A small cartridge designed for target shooting
Floccillation	 A delirious picking of bedclothes by a sick person, as if to pick off flocks of wool; carphology; -- an alarming symptom in acute diseases.
Floccose	 Spotted with small tufts like wool.
Floccose	 Having tufts of soft hairs, which are often deciduous.
Floccular	 Of or pertaining to the flocculus.
Flocculated	 of Flocculate
Flocculating	 of Flocculate
Flocculate	 To aggregate into small lumps.
Flocculate	 Furnished with tufts of curly hairs, as some insects.
Flocculation	 The process by which small particles of fine soils and sediments aggregate into larger lumps.
Flocculence	 The state of being flocculent.
Flocculent	 Clothed with small flocks or flakes
Flocculent	 Applied to the down of newly hatched or unfledged birds.
Flocculi	 of Flocculus
Flocculus	 A small lobe in the under surface of the cerebellum, near the middle peduncle; the subpeduncular lobe.
Flocci	 of Floccus
Floccus	 The tuft of hair terminating the tail of mammals.
Floccus	 A tuft of feathers on the head of young birds.
Floccus	 A woolly filament sometimes occuring with the sporules of certain fungi.
Flock	 A company or collection of living creatures; -- especially applied to sheep and birds, rarely to persons or (except in the plural) to cattle and other large animals; as, a flock of ravenous fowl.
Flock	 A Christian church or congregation; considered in their relation to the pastor, or minister in charge.
Flocked	 of Flock
Flocking	 of Flock
Flock	 To gather in companies or crowds.
Flock	 To flock to
Flock	 A lock of wool or hair.
Flock	 Woolen or cotton refuse (sing. / pl.), old rags, etc., reduced to a degree of fineness by machinery, and used for stuffing unpholstered furniture.
Flock	 Very fine, sifted, woolen refuse, especially that from shearing the nap of cloths, used as a coating for wall paper to give it a velvety or clothlike appearance; also, the dust of vegetable fiber used for a similar purpose.
Flock	 To coat with flock, as wall paper; to roughen the surface of (as glass) so as to give an appearance of being covered with fine flock.
Flockling	 A lamb.
Flockly	 In flocks
Flockmel	 In a flock
Flocky	 Abounding with flocks
Floe	 A low, flat mass of floating ice.
Flogged	 of Flog
Flogging	 of Flog
Flog	 To beat or strike with a rod or whip
Flogger	 One who flogs.
Flogger	 A kind of mallet for beating the bung stave of a cask to start the bung.
Flogging	 from Flog, v. t.
Flon	 See Flo.
Flong	 imp. & p. p. of Fling.
Flood	 A great flow of water; a body of moving water; the flowing stream, as of a river; especially, a body of water, rising, swelling, and overflowing land not usually thus covered; a deluge; a freshet; an inundation.
Flood	 The flowing in of the tide; the semidiurnal swell or rise of water in the ocean; -- opposed to ebb; as, young flood; high flood.
Flood	 A great flow or stream of any fluid substance; as, a flood of light; a flood of lava; hence, a great quantity widely diffused; an overflowing; a superabundance; as, a flood of bank notes; a flood of paper currency.
Flood	 Menstrual disharge
Flooded	 of Flood
Flooding	 of Flood
Flood	 To overflow; to inundate; to deluge; as, the swollen river flooded the valley.
Flood	 To cause or permit to be inundated; to fill or cover with water or other fluid; as, to flood arable land for irrigation; to fill to excess or to its full capacity; as, to flood a country with a depreciated currency.
Floodage	 Inundation.
Flooder	 One who floods anything.
Flooding	 The filling or covering with water or other fluid
Flooding	 An abnormal or excessive discharge of blood from the uterus.
Flook	 A fluke of an anchor.
Flookan	 Alt. of Flukan
Flukan	 See Flucan.
Flooky	 Fluky.
Floor	 The bottom or lower part of any room
Floor	 The structure formed of beams, girders, etc., with proper covering, which divides a building horizontally into stories. Floor in sense 1 is, then, the upper surface of floor in sense 2.
Floor	 The surface, or the platform, of a structure on which we walk or travel; as, the floor of a bridge.
Floor	 A story of a building. See Story.
Floor	 The part of the house assigned to the members.
Floor	 The right to speak.
Floor	 That part of the bottom of a vessel on each side of the keelson which is most nearly horizontal.
Floor	 The rock underlying a stratified or nearly horizontal deposit.
Floor	 A horizontal, flat ore body.
Floored	 of Floor
Flooring	 of Floor
Floor	 To cover with a floor; to furnish with a floor; as, to floor a house with pine boards.
Floor	 To strike down or lay level with the floor; to knock down; hence, to silence by a conclusive answer or retort; as, to floor an opponent.
Floor	 To finish or make an end of; as, to floor a college examination.
Floorage	 Floor space.
Floorer	 Anything that floors or upsets a person, as a blow that knocks him down; a conclusive answer or retort; a task that exceeds one's abilities.
Floorheads	 The upper extermities of the floor of a vessel.
Flooring	 A platform; the bottom of a room; a floor; pavement. See Floor, n.
Flooring	 Material for the construction of a floor or floors.
Floorless	 Having no floor.
Floorwalker	 One who walks about in a large retail store as an overseer and director.
Flopped	 of Flop
Flopping	 of Flop
Flop	 To clap or strike, as a bird its wings, a fish its tail, etc.; to flap.
Flop	 To turn suddenly, as something broad and flat.
Flop	 To strike about with something broad abd flat, as a fish with its tail, or a bird with its wings; to rise and fall; as, the brim of a hat flops.
Flop	 To fall, sink, or throw one's self, heavily, clumsily, and unexpectedly on the ground.
Flop	 Act of flopping.
Floppy	 Having a tendency to flop or flap; as, a floppy hat brim.
Flopwing	 The lapwing.
Flora	 The goddess of flowers and spring.
Flora	 The complete system of vegetable species growing without cultivation in a given locality, region, or period; a list or description of, or treatise on, such plants.
Floral	 Pertaining to Flora, or to flowers; made of flowers; as, floral games, wreaths.
Floral	 Containing, or belonging to, a flower; as, a floral bud; a floral leaf; floral characters.
Florally	 In a floral manner.
Floramour	 The plant love-lies-bleeding.
Floran	 Tin ore scarcely perceptible in the stone
Floreal	 The eight month of the French republican calendar. It began April 20, and ended May 19. See Vendemiare.
Floren	 A cerain gold coin
Florence	 An ancient gold coin of the time of Edward III., of six shillings sterling value.
Florence	 A kind of cloth.
Florentine	 Belonging or relating to Florence, in Italy.
Florentine	 A native or inhabitant of Florence, a city in Italy.
Florentine	 A kind of silk.
Florentine	 A kind of pudding or tart
Florescence	 A bursting into flower
Florescent	 Expanding into flowers
Floret	 A little flower; one of the numerous little flowers which compose the head or anthodium in such flowers as the daisy, thistle, and dandelion.
Floret	 A foil
Floriage	 Bloom
Floriated	 Having floral ornaments; as, floriated capitals of Gothic pillars.
Floricomous	 Having the head adorned with flowers.
Floricultural	 Pertaining to the cultivation of flowering plants.
Floriculture	 The cultivation of flowering plants.
Floriculturist	 One skilled in the cultivation of flowers
Florid	 Covered with flowers
Florid	 Bright in color; flushed with red; of a lively reddish color; as, a florid countenance.
Florid	 Embellished with flowers of rhetoric; enriched to excess with figures; excessively ornate; as, a florid style; florid eloquence.
Florid	 Flowery; ornamental; running in rapid melodic figures, divisions, or passages, as in variations; full of fioriture or little ornamentations.
Florida	 bean The large, roundish, flattened seed of Mucuna urens. See under Bean.
Florida	 bean One of the very large seeds of the Entada scandens.
Florideae	 A subclass of algae including all the red or purplish seaweeds
Floridity	 The quality of being florid
Floridly	 In a florid manner.
Floridness	 The quality of being florid.
Floriferous	 Producing flowers.
Florification	 The act, process, or time of flowering; florescence.
Floriform	 Having the form of a flower
Floriken	 An Indian bustard (Otis aurita). The Bengal floriken is Sypheotides Bengalensis.
Florilege	 The act of gathering flowers.
Florimer	 See Floramour.
Florin	 A silver coin of Florence, first struck in the twelfth century, and noted for its beauty. The name is given to different coins in different countries. The florin of England, first minted in 1849, is worth two shillings, or about 48 cents; the florin of the Netherlands, about 40 cents; of Austria, about 36 cents.
Florist	 A cultivator of, or dealer in, flowers.
Florist	 One who writes a flora, or an account of plants.
Floroon	 A border worked with flowers.
Florulent	 Flowery
Floscular	 Flosculous.
Floscularian	 One of a group of stalked rotifers, having ciliated tentacles around the lobed disk.
Floscule	 A floret.
Flosculous	 Consisting of many gamopetalous florets.
Flos-ferri	 A variety of aragonite, occuring in delicate white coralloidal forms; -- common in beds of iron ore.
Flosh	 A hopper-shaped box or /nortar in which ore is placed for the action of the stamps.
Floss	 The slender styles of the pistillate flowers of maize
Floss	 Untwisted filaments of silk, used in embroidering.
Floss	 A small stream of water.
Floss	 Fluid glass floating on iron in the puddling furnace, produced by the vitrification of oxides and earths which are present.
Flossification	 A flowering
Flossy	 Pertaining to, made of, or resembling, floss; hence, light; downy.
Flota	 A fleet; especially, a /eet of Spanish ships which formerly sailed every year from Cadiz to Vera Cruz, in Mexico, to transport to Spain the production of Spanish America.
Flotage	 The state of floating.
Flotage	 That which floats on the sea or in rivers.
Flotant	 Represented as flying or streaming in the air; as, a banner flotant.
Flotation	 The act, process, or state of floating.
Flotation	 The science of floating bodies.
Flote	 To fleet
Flote	 A wave.
Flotery	 Wavy
Flotilla	 A little fleet, or a fleet of small vessels.
Flotsam	 Alt. of Flotson
Flotson	 Goods lost by shipwreck, and floating on the sea; -- in distinction from jetsam or jetson.
Flotten	 Skimmed.
Flounced	 of Flounce
Flouncing	 of Flounce
Flounce	 To throw the limbs and body one way and the other; to spring, turn, or twist with sudden effort or violence; to struggle, as a horse in mire; to flounder; to throw one's self with a jerk or spasm, often as in displeasure.
Flounce	 The act of floucing; a sudden, jerking motion of the body.
Flounce	 An ornamental appendage to the skirt of a woman's dress, consisting of a strip gathered and sewed on by its upper edge around the skirt, and left hanging.
Flounce	 To deck with a flounce or flounces; as, to flounce a petticoat or a frock.
Flounder	 A flatfish of the family Pleuronectidae, of many species.
Flounder	 A tool used in crimping boot fronts.
Floundered	 of Flounder
Floundering	 of Flounder
Flounder	 To fling the limbs and body, as in making efforts to move; to struggle, as a horse in the mire, or as a fish on land; to roll, toss, and tumble; to flounce.
Flounder	 The act of floundering.
Flour	 The finely ground meal of wheat, or of any other grain; especially, the finer part of meal separated by bolting; hence, the fine and soft powder of any substance; as, flour of emery; flour of mustard.
Floured	 of Flour
Flouring	 of Flour
Flour	 To grind and bolt; to convert into flour; as, to flour wheat.
Flour	 To sprinkle with flour.
Floured	 Finely granulated
Flourished	 of Flourish
Flourishing	 of Flourish
Flourish	 To grow luxuriantly; to increase and enlarge, as a healthy growing plant; a thrive.
Flourish	 To be prosperous; to increase in wealth, honor, comfort, happiness, or whatever is desirable; to thrive; to be prominent and influental; specifically, of authors, painters, etc., to be in a state of activity or production.
Flourish	 To use florid language
Flourish	 To make bold and sweeping, fanciful, or wanton movements, by way of ornament, parade, bravado, etc.; to play with fantastic and irregular motion.
Flourish	 To make ornamental strokes with the pen; to write graceful, decorative figures.
Flourish	 To execute an irregular or fanciful strain of music, by way of ornament or prelude.
Flourish	 To boast
Flourish	 To adorn with flowers orbeautiful figures, either natural or artificial; to ornament with anything showy; to embellish.
Flourish	 To embellish with the flowers of diction
Flourish	 To move in bold or irregular figures
Flourish	 To develop
Flourishes	 of Flourish
Flourish	 A flourishing condition
Flourish	 Decoration
Flourish	 Something made or performed in a fanciful, wanton, or vaunting manner, by way of ostentation, to excite admiration, etc.; ostentatious embellishment; ambitious copiousness or amplification; parade of words and figures; show; as, a flourish of rhetoric or of wit.
Flourish	 A fanciful stroke of the pen or graver
Flourish	 A fantastic or decorative musical passage; a strain of triumph or bravado, not forming part of a regular musical composition; a cal; a fanfare.
Flourish	 The waving of a weapon or other thing; a brandishing; as, the flourish of a sword.
Flourisher	 One who flourishes.
Flourishingly	 In a flourishing manner
Floury	 Of or resembling flour
Flouted	 of Flout
Flouting	 of Flout
Flout	 To mock or insult
Flout	 To practice mocking
Flout	 A mock
Flouter	 One who flouts
Floutingly	 With flouting; insultingly; as, to treat a lover floutingly.
Flow	 imp. sing. of Fly, v. i.
Flowed	 of Flow
Flowing	 of Flow
Flow	 To move with a continual change of place among the particles or parts, as a fluid; to change place or circulate, as a liquid; as, rivers flow from springs and lakes; tears flow from the eyes.
Flow	 To become liquid
Flow	 To proceed; to issue forth; as, wealth flows from industry and economy.
Flow	 To glide along smoothly, without harshness or asperties; as, a flowing period; flowing numbers; to sound smoothly to the ear; to be uttered easily.
Flow	 To have or be in abundance; to abound; to full, so as to run or flow over; to be copious.
Flow	 To hang loose and waving; as, a flowing mantle; flowing locks.
Flow	 To rise, as the tide; -- opposed to ebb; as, the tide flows twice in twenty-four hours.
Flow	 To discharge blood in excess from the uterus.
Flow	 To cover with water or other liquid
Flow	 To cover with varnish.
Flow	 A stream of water or other fluid; a current; as, a flow of water; a flow of blood.
Flow	 A continuous movement of something abundant; as, a flow of words.
Flow	 Any gentle, gradual movement or procedure of thought, diction, music, or the like, resembling the quiet, steady movement of a river; a stream.
Flow	 The tidal setting in of the water from the ocean to the shore. See Ebb and flow, under Ebb.
Flow	 A low-lying piece of watery land
Flowage	 An overflowing with water; also, the water which thus overflows.
Flowen	 imp. pl. of Fly, v. i.
Flower	 In the popular sense, the bloom or blossom of a plant; the showy portion, usually of a different color, shape, and texture from the foliage.
Flower	 That part of a plant destined to produce seed, and hence including one or both of the sexual organs; an organ or combination of the organs of reproduction, whether inclosed by a circle of foliar parts or not. A complete flower consists of two essential parts, the stamens and the pistil, and two floral envelopes, the corolla and callyx. In mosses the flowers consist of a few special leaves surrounding or subtending organs called archegonia. See Blossom, and Corolla.
Flower	 The fairest, freshest, and choicest part of anything; as, the flower of an army, or of a family; the state or time of freshness and bloom; as, the flower of life, that is, youth.
Flower	 Grain pulverized
Flower	 A substance in the form of a powder, especially when condensed from sublimation; as, the flowers of sulphur.
Flower	 A figure of speech
Flower	 Ornamental type used chiefly for borders around pages, cards, etc.
Flower	 Menstrual discharges.
Flowered	 of Flower
Flowering	 of Flower
Flower	 To blossom; to bloom; to expand the petals, as a plant; to produce flowers; as, this plant flowers in June.
Flower	 To come into the finest or fairest condition.
Flower	 To froth; to ferment gently, as new beer.
Flower	 To come off as flowers by sublimation.
Flower	 To embellish with flowers; to adorn with imitated flowers; as, flowered silk.
Flowerage	 State of flowers; flowers, collectively or in general.
Flower-de-luce	 A genus of perennial herbs (Iris) with swordlike leaves and large three-petaled flowers often of very gay colors, but probably white in the plant first chosen for the royal French emblem.
Flowerer	 A plant which flowers or blossoms.
Floweret	 A small flower
Flower-fence	 A tropical leguminous bush (Poinciana, / Caesalpinia, pulcherrima) with prickly branches, and showy yellow or red flowers; -- so named from its having been sometimes used for hedges in the West Indies.
Flowerful	 Abounding with flowers.
Flower-gentle	 A species of amaranth (Amarantus melancholicus).
Floweriness	 The state of being flowery.
Flowering	 Having conspicuous flowers; -- used as an epithet with many names of plants; as, flowering ash; flowering dogwood; flowering almond, etc.
Flowering	 The act of blossoming, or the season when plants blossom; florification.
Flowering	 The act of adorning with flowers.
Flowerless	 Having no flowers.
Flowerlessness	 State of being without flowers.
Flowerpot	 A vessel, commonly or earthenware, for earth in which plants are grown.
Flowery	 Full of flowers
Flowery	 Highly embellished with figurative language; florid; as, a flowery style.
Flowery-kirtled	 Dressed with garlands of flowers.
Flowing	 That flows or for flowing (in various sense of the verb)
Flowing	 a. & n. from Flow, v. i. & t.
Flowingly	 In a flowing manner.
Flowingness	 Flowing tendency or quality
Flowk	 See 1st Fluke.
Flown	 p. p. of Fly; -- often used with the auxiliary verb to be; as, the birds are flown.
Flown	 Flushed, inflated.
Floxed	 silk See Floss silk, under Floss.
Floyte	 A variant of Flute.
Fluate	 A fluoride.
Fluavil	 A hydrocarbon extracted from gutta-percha, as a yellow, resinous substance; -- called also fluanil.
Flucan	 Soft clayey matter in the vein, or surrounding it.
Fluctiferous	 Tending to produce waves.
Fluctisonous	 Sounding like waves.
Fluctuability	 The capacity or ability to fluctuate.
Fluctuant	 Moving like a wave
Fluctuant	 showing undulation or fluctuation; as, a fluctuant tumor.
Fluctuant	 Floating on the waves.
Fluctuated	 of Fluctuate
Fluctuating	 of Fluctuate
Fluctuate	 To move as a wave; to roll hither and thither; to wave; to float backward and forward, as on waves; as, a fluctuating field of air.
Fluctuate	 To move now in one direction and now in another
Fluctuate	 To cause to move as a wave
Fluctuation	 A motion like that of waves; a moving in this and that direction; as, the fluctuations of the sea.
Fluctuation	 A wavering; unsteadiness; as, fluctuations of opinion; fluctuations of prices.
Fluctuation	 The motion or undulation of a fluid collected in a natural or artifical cavity, which is felt when it is subjected to pressure or percussion.
Flue	 An inclosed passage way for establishing and directing a current of air, gases, etc.; an air passage
Flue	 A compartment or division of a chimney for conveying flame and smoke to the outer air.
Flue	 A passage way for conducting a current of fresh, foul, or heated air from one place to another.
Flue	 A pipe or passage for conveying flame and hot gases through surrounding water in a boiler
Flue	 Light down, such as rises from cotton, fur, etc.; very fine lint or hair.
Fluence	 Fluency.
Fluency	 The quality of being fluent
Fluent	 Flowing or capable of flowing
Fluent	 Ready in the use of words; voluble; copious; having words at command; and uttering them with facility and smoothness; as, a fluent speaker; hence, flowing; voluble; smooth; -- said of language; as, fluent speech.
Fluent	 A current of water
Fluent	 A variable quantity, considered as increasing or diminishing; -- called, in the modern calculus, the function or integral.
Fluently	 In a fluent manner.
Fluentness	 The quality of being fluent.
Fluework	 A general name for organ stops in which the sound is caused by wind passing through a flue or fissure and striking an edge above
Fluey	 Downy
Fluff	 Nap or down; flue; soft, downy feathers.
Fluffy	 Pertaining to, or resembling, fluff or nap; soft and downy.
Flugel	 A grand piano or a harpsichord, both being wing-shaped.
Flugelman	 Same as Fugleman.
Fluid	 Having particles which easily move and change their relative position without a separation of the mass, and which easily yield to pressure; capable of flowing; liquid or gaseous.
Fluid	 A fluid substance
Fluidal	 Pertaining to a fluid, or to its flowing motion.
Fluinity	 The quality of being fluid or capable of flowing; a liquid, aeriform. or gaseous state; -- opposed to solidity.
Fluidized	 of Fluidize
Fluidizing	 of Fluidize
Fluidize	 To render fluid.
Fluidness	 The state of being flluid
Fluidounce	 See Fluid ounce, under Fluid.
Fluidrachm	 See Fluid dram, under Fluid.
Flukan	 Flucan.
Fluke	 The European flounder. See Flounder.
Fluke	 A parasitic trematode worm of several species, having a flat, lanceolate body and two suckers. Two species (Fasciola hepatica and Distoma lanceolatum) are found in the livers of sheep, and produce the disease called rot.
Fluke	 The part of an anchor which fastens in the ground
Fluke	 One of the lobes of a whale's tail, so called from the resemblance to the fluke of an anchor.
Fluke	 An instrument for cleaning out a hole drilled in stone for blasting.
Fluke	 An accidental and favorable stroke at billiards (called a scratch in the United States); hence, any accidental or unexpected advantage; as, he won by a fluke.
Flukeworm	 Same as 1st Fluke, 2.
Fluky	 Formed like, or having, a fluke.
Flume	 A stream; especially, a passage channel, or conduit for the water that drives a mill wheel; or an artifical channel of water for hydraulic or placer mining; also, a chute for conveying logs or lumber down a declivity.
Fluminous	 Pertaining to rivers
Flummery	 A light kind of food, formerly made of flour or meal; a sort of pap.
Flummery	 Something insipid, or not worth having; empty compliment; trash; unsubstantial talk of writing.
Flung	 imp. & p. p. of Fling.
Flunked	 of Flunk
Flunking	 of Flunk
Flunk	 To fail, as on a lesson; to back out, as from an undertaking, through fear.
Flunk	 To fail in; to shirk, as a task or duty.
Flunk	 A failure or backing out
Flunk	 a total failure in a recitation.
Flunkies	 of Flunky
Flunky	 A contemptuous name for a liveried servant or a footman.
Flunky	 One who is obsequious or cringing
Flunky	 One easily deceived in buying stocks
Flunkydom	 The place or region of flunkies.
Flunlyism	 The quality or characteristics of a flunky
Fluo-	 A combining form indicating fluorine as an ingredient; as in fluosilicate, fluobenzene.
Fluoborate	 A salt of fluoboric acid
Fluoboric	 Pertaining to, derived from, or consisting of, fluorine and boron.
Fluoboride	 See Borofluoride.
Fluocerine	 Alt. of Fluocerite
Fluocerite	 A fluoride of cerium, occuring near Fahlun in Sweden. Tynosite, from Colorado, is probably the same mineral.
Fluohydric	 See Hydrofluoric.
Fluophosphate	 A double salt of fluoric and phosphoric acids.
Fluor	 A fluid state.
Fluor	 Menstrual flux
Fluor	 See Fluorite.
Fluor	 albus The whites
Fluoranthene	 A white crystalline hydrocarbon C/H/, of a complex structure, found as one ingrdient of the higher boiling portion of coal tar.
Fluorated	 Combined with fluorine
Fluorene	 A colorless, crystalline hydrocarbon, C13H10 having a beautiful violet fluorescence; whence its name. It occurs in the higher boiling products of coal tar, and is obtained artificially.
Fluorescein	 A yellowish red, crystalline substance, C20H12O5, produced by heating together phthalic anhydride and resorcin; -- so called, from the very brilliant yellowish green fluorescence of its alkaline solutions. It has acid properties, and its salts of the alkalies are known to the trade under the name of uranin.
Fluorescence	 That property which some transparent bodies have of producing at their surface, or within their substance, light different in color from the mass of the material, as when green crystals of fluor spar afford blue reflections. It is due not to the difference in the color of a distinct surface layer, but to the power which the substance has of modifying the light incident upon it. The light emitted by fluorescent substances is in general of lower refrangibility than the incident light.
Fluorescent	 Having the property of fluorescence.
Fluorescin	 A colorless, amorphous substance which is produced by the reduction of fluorescein, and from which the latter may be formed by oxidation.
Fluoric	 Pertaining to, obtained from, or containing, fluorine.
Fluoride	 A binary compound of fluorine with another element or radical.
Fluorine	 A non-metallic, gaseous element, strongly acid or negative, or associated with chlorine, bromine, and iodine, in the halogen group of which it is the first member. It always occurs combined, is very active chemically, and possesses such an avidity for most elements, and silicon especially, that it can neither be prepared nor kept in glass vessels. If set free it immediately attacks the containing material, so that it was not isolated until 1886. It is a pungent, corrosive, colorless gas. Symbol F. Atomic weight 19.
Fluorite	 Calcium fluoride, a mineral of many different colors, white, yellow, purple, green, red, etc., often very beautiful, crystallizing commonly in cubes with perfect octahedral cleavage; also massive. It is used as a flux. Some varieties are used for ornamental vessels. Also called fluor spar, or simply fluor.
Fluoroid	 A tetrahexahedron
Fluoroscope	 An instrument for observing or exhibiting fluorescence.
Fluorous	 Pertaining to fluor.
Fluor	 spar See Fluorite.
Fluosilicate	 A double fluoride of silicon and some other (usually basic) element or radical, regarded as a salt of fluosilicic acid; -- called also silicofluoride.
Fluosilicic	 Composed of, or derived from, silicon and fluorine.
Flurried	 Agitated
Flurries	 of Flurry
Flurry	 A sudden and brief blast or gust; a light, temporary breeze; as, a flurry of wind.
Flurry	 A light shower or snowfall accompanied with wind.
Flurry	 Violent agitation
Flurry	 The violent spasms of a dying whale.
Flurried	 of Flurry
Flurrying	 of Flurry
Flurry	 To put in a state of agitation
Flurt	 A flirt.
Flushed	 of Flush
Flushing	 of Flush
Flush	 To flow and spread suddenly; to rush; as, blood flushes into the face.
Flush	 To become suddenly suffused, as the cheeks; to turn red; to blush.
Flush	 To snow red
Flush	 To start up suddenly
Flush	 To cause to be full; to flood; to overflow; to overwhelm with water; as, to flush the meadows; to flood for the purpose of cleaning; as, to flush a sewer.
Flush	 To cause the blood to rush into (the face); to put to the blush, or to cause to glow with excitement.
Flush	 To make suddenly or temporarily red or rosy, as if suffused with blood.
Flush	 To excite
Flush	 To cause to start, as a hunter a bird.
Flush	 A sudden flowing; a rush which fills or overflows, as of water for cleansing purposes.
Flush	 A suffusion of the face with blood, as from fear, shame, modesty, or intensity of feeling of any kind; a blush; a glow.
Flush	 Any tinge of red color like that produced on the cheeks by a sudden rush of blood; as, the flush on the side of a peach; the flush on the clouds at sunset.
Flush	 A sudden flood or rush of feeling; a thrill of excitement. animation, etc.; as, a flush of joy.
Flush	 A flock of birds suddenly started up or flushed.
Flush	 A hand of cards of the same suit.
Flush	 Full of vigor
Flush	 Affluent; abounding; well furnished or suppled; hence, liberal; prodigal.
Flush	 Unbroken or even in surface; on a level with the adjacent surface; forming a continuous surface; as, a flush panel; a flush joint.
Flush	 Consisting of cards of one suit.
Flush	 So as to be level or even.
Flushboard	 Same as Flashboard.
Flusher	 A workman employed in cleaning sewers by flushing them with water.
Flusher	 The red-backed shrike. See Flasher.
Flushing	 A heavy, coarse cloth manufactured from shoddy; -- commonly in the /
Flushing	 A surface formed of floating threads.
Flushingly	 In a flushing manner.
Flushness	 The state of being flush
Flustered	 of Fluster
Flustering	 of Fluster
Fluster	 To make hot and rosy, as with drinking; to heat; hence, to throw into agitation and confusion; to confuse; to muddle.
Fluster	 To be in a heat or bustle
Fluster	 Heat or glow, as from drinking; agitation mingled with confusion; disorder.
Flusteration	 The act of flustering, or the state of being flustered; fluster.
Flustrate	 To fluster.
Flustration	 The act of flustrating
Flute	 A musical wind instrument, consisting of a hollow cylinder or pipe, with holes along its length, stopped by the fingers or by keys which are opened by the fingers. The modern flute is closed at the upper end, and blown with the mouth at a lateral hole.
Flute	 A channel of curved section; -- usually applied to one of a vertical series of such channels used to decorate columns and pilasters in classical architecture. See Illust. under Base, n.
Flute	 A similar channel or groove made in wood or other material, esp. in plaited cloth, as in a lady's ruffle.
Flute	 A long French breakfast roll.
Flute	 A stop in an organ, having a flutelike sound.
Flute	 A kind of flyboat
Flute	 To play on, or as on, a flute; to make a flutelike sound.
Fluted	 of Flute
Fluting	 of Flute
Flute	 To play, whistle, or sing with a clear, soft note, like that of a flute.
Flute	 To form flutes or channels in, as in a column, a ruffle, etc.
Flute	 a bec A beak flute, an older form of the flute, played with a mouthpiece resembling a beak, and held like a flageolet.
Fluted	 Thin; fine; clear and mellow; flutelike; as, fluted notes.
Fluted	 Decorated with flutes; channeled; grooved; as, a fluted column; a fluted ruffle; a fluted spectrum.
Flutemouth	 A fish of the genus Aulostoma, having a much elongated tubular snout.
Fluter	 One who plays on the flute
Fluter	 One who makes grooves or flutings.
Fluting	 Decoration by means of flutes or channels; a flute, or flutes collectively; as, the fluting of a column or pilaster; the fluting of a lady's ruffle.
Flutist	 A performer on the flute
Flutist	 To move with quick vibrations or undulations; as, a sail flutters in the wind; a fluttering fan.
Flutist	 To move about briskly, irregularly, or with great bustle and show, without much result.
Flutist	 To be in agitation
Flutter	 To vibrate or move quickly; as, a bird flutters its wings.
Flutter	 To drive in disorder
Flutter	 The act of fluttering; quick and irregular motion; vibration; as, the flutter of a fan.
Flutter	 Hurry
Flutterer	 One who, or that which, flutters.
Flutteringly	 In a fluttering manner.
Fluty	 Soft and clear in tone, like a flute.
Fluvial	 Belonging to rivers; growing or living in streams or ponds; as, a fluvial plant.
Fluvialist	 One who exlpains geological phenomena by the action of streams.
Fluviatic	 Belonging to rivers or streams
Fluviatile	 Belonging to rivers or streams; existing in or about rivers; produced by river action; fluvial; as, fluviatile starta, plants.
Fluvio-marine	 Formed by the joint action of a river and the sea, as deposits at the mouths of rivers.
Flux	 The act of flowing; a continuous moving on or passing by, as of a flowing stream; constant succession; change.
Flux	 The setting in of the tide toward the shore, -- the ebb being called the reflux.
Flux	 The state of being liquid through heat
Flux	 Any substance or mixture used to promote the fusion of metals or minerals, as alkalies, borax, lime, fluorite.
Flux	 A fluid discharge from the bowels or other part; especially, an excessive and morbid discharge; as, the bloody flux or dysentery. See Bloody flux.
Flux	 The matter thus discharged.
Flux	 The quantity of a fluid that crosses a unit area of a given surface in a unit of time.
Flux	 Flowing
Fluxed	 of Flux
Fluxing	 of Flux
Flux	 To affect, or bring to a certain state, by flux.
Flux	 To cause to become fluid
Flux	 To cause a discharge from
Fluxation	 The act of fluxing.
Fluxibility	 The quality of being fluxible.
Fluxible	 Capable of being melted or fused, as a mineral.
Fluxile	 Fluxible.
Fluxility	 State of being fluxible.
Fluxion	 The act of flowing.
Fluxion	 The matter that flows.
Fluxion	 Fusion
Fluxion	 An unnatural or excessive flow of blood or fluid toward any organ
Fluxion	 A constantly varying indication.
Fluxion	 The infinitely small increase or decrease of a variable or flowing quantity in a certain infinitely small and constant period of time
Fluxion	 A method of analysis developed by Newton, and based on the conception of all magnitudes as generated by motion, and involving in their changes the notion of velocity or rate of change. Its results are the same as those of the differential and integral calculus, from which it differs little except in notation and logical method.
Fluxional	 Pertaining to, or having the nature of, fluxion or fluxions; variable; inconstant.
Fluxionary	 Fluxional.
Fluxionary	 Pertaining to, or caused by, an increased flow of blood to a part; congestive; as, a fluxionary hemorrhage.
Fluxionist	 One skilled in fluxions.
Fluxions	 See Fluxion, 6(b).
Fluxive	 Flowing; also, wanting solidity.
Fluxure	 The quality of being fluid.
Fluxure	 Fluid matter.
Flew	 of Fly
Flown	 of Fly
Flying	 of Fly
Fly	 To move in or pass thorugh the air with wings, as a bird.
Fly	 To move through the air or before the wind; esp., to pass or be driven rapidly through the air by any impulse.
Fly	 To float, wave, or rise in the air, as sparks or a flag.
Fly	 To move or pass swiftly; to hasten away; to circulate rapidly; as, a ship flies on the deep; a top flies around; rumor flies.
Fly	 To run from danger; to attempt to escape; to flee; as, an enemy or a coward flies. See Note under Flee.
Fly	 To move suddenly, or with violence; to do an act suddenly or swiftly; -- usually with a qualifying word; as, a door flies open; a bomb flies apart.
Fly	 To cause to fly or to float in the air, as a bird, a kite, a flag, etc.
Fly	 To fly or flee from
Fly	 To hunt with a hawk.
Flies	 of Fly
Fly	 Any winged insect; esp., one with transparent wings; as, the Spanish fly; firefly; gall fly; dragon fly.
Fly	 Any dipterous insect; as, the house fly; flesh fly; black fly. See Diptera, and Illust. in Append.
Fly	 A hook dressed in imitation of a fly, -- used for fishing.
Fly	 A familiar spirit
Fly	 A parasite.
Fly	 A kind of light carriage for rapid transit, plying for hire and usually drawn by one horse.
Fly	 The length of an extended flag from its staff; sometimes, the length from the "union" to the extreme end.
Fly	 The part of a vane pointing the direction from which the wind blows.
Fly	 That part of a compass on which the points are marked
Fly	 Two or more vanes set on a revolving axis, to act as a fanner, or to equalize or impede the motion of machinery by the resistance of the air, as in the striking part of a clock.
Fly	 A heavy wheel, or cross arms with weights at the ends on a revolving axis, to regulate or equalize the motion of machinery by means of its inertia, where the power communicated, or the resistance to be overcome, is variable, as in the steam engine or the coining press. See Fly wheel (below).
Fly	 The piece hinged to the needle, which holds the engaged loop in position while the needle is penetrating another loop; a latch.
Fly	 The pair of arms revolving around the bobbin, in a spinning wheel or spinning frame, to twist the yarn.
Fly	 A shuttle driven through the shed by a blow or jerk.
Fly	 Formerly, the person who took the printed sheets from the press.
Fly	 A vibrating frame with fingers, attached to a power to a power printing press for doing the same work.
Fly	 The outer canvas of a tent with double top, usually drawn over the ridgepole, but so extended as to touch the roof of the tent at no other place.
Fly	 One of the upper screens of a stage in a theater.
Fly	 The fore flap of a bootee; also, a lap on trousers, overcoats, etc., to conceal a row of buttons.
Fly	 A batted ball that flies to a considerable distance, usually high in the air; also, the flight of a ball so struck; as, it was caught on the fly.
Fly	 Knowing
Flybane	 A kind of catchfly of the genus Silene; also, a poisonous mushroom (Agaricus muscarius); fly agaric.
Fly-bitten	 Marked by, or as if by, the bite of flies.
Flyblow	 To deposit eggs upon, as a flesh fly does on meat; to cause to be maggoty; hence, to taint or contaminate, as if with flyblows.
Flyblow	 One of the eggs or young larvae deposited by a flesh fly, or blowfly.
Flyblown	 Tainted or contaminated with flyblows
Flyboat	 A large Dutch coasting vessel.
Flyboat	 A kind of passenger boat formerly used on canals.
Fly-case	 The covering of an insect, esp. the elytra of beetles.
Flycatcher	 One of numerous species of birds that feed upon insects, which they take on the wing.
Fly-catching	 Having the habit of catching insects on the wing.
Flyer	 One that uses wings.
Flyer	 The fly of a flag: See Fly, n., 6.
Flyer	 Anything that is scattered abroad in great numbers as a theatrical programme, an advertising leaf, etc.
Flyer	 One in a flight of steps which are parallel to each other(as in ordinary stairs), as distinguished from a winder.
Flyer	 The pair of arms attached to the spindle of a spinning frame, over which the thread passes to the bobbin; -- so called from their swift revolution. See Fly, n., 11.
Flyer	 The fan wheel that rotates the cap of a windmill as the wind veers.
Flyer	 A small operation not involving ? considerable part of one's capital, or not in the line of one's ordinary business; a venture.
Flyfish	 A California scorpaenoid fish (Sebastichthys rhodochloris), having brilliant colors.
Fly-fish	 To angle, using flies for bait.
Flying	 Moving in the air with, or as with, wings; moving lightly or rapidly; intended for rapid movement.
Flying	 fish A fish which is able to leap from the water, and fly a considerable distance by means of its large and long pectoral fins. These fishes belong to several species of the genus Exocoetus, and are found in the warmer parts of all the oceans.
Flying	 squirrel One of a group of squirrels, of the genera Pteromus and Sciuropterus, having parachute-like folds of skin extending from the fore to the hind legs, which enable them to make very long leaps.
Flymen	 of Flyman
Flyman	 The driver of a fly, or light public carriage.
Flysch	 A name given to the series of sandstones and schists overlying the true nummulitic formation in the Alps, and included in the Eocene Tertiary.
Flyspeck	 A speck or stain made by the excrement of a fly; hence, any insignificant dot.
Flyspeck	 To soil with flyspecks.
Flytrap	 A trap for catching flies.
Flytrap	 A plant (Dionaea muscipula), called also Venus's flytrap, the leaves of which are fringed with stiff bristles, and fold together when certain hairs on their upper surface are touched, thus seizing insects that light on them. The insects so caught are afterwards digested by a secretion from the upper surface of the leaves.
Fnese	 To breathe heavily
Fo	 The Chinese name of Buddha.
Foal	 The young of any animal of the Horse family (Equidae)
Foaled	 of Foal
Foaling	 of Foal
Foal	 To bring forth (a colt)
Foal	 To bring forth young, as an animal of the horse kind.
Foalfoot	 See Coltsfoot.
Foam	 The white substance, consisting of an aggregation of bubbles, which is formed on the surface of liquids, or in the mouth of an animal, by violent agitation or fermentation; froth; spume; scum; as, the foam of the sea.
Foamed	 of Foam
Foaming	 of Foam
Foam	 To gather foam; to froth; as, the billows foam.
Foam	 To form foam, or become filled with foam; -- said of a steam boiler when the water is unduly agitated and frothy, as because of chemical action.
Foam	 To cause to foam; as,to foam the goblet; also (with out), to throw out with rage or violence, as foam.
Foamingly	 With foam
Foamless	 Having no foam.
Foamy	 Covered with foam
Fob	 A little pocket for a watch.
Fobbed	 of Fob
Fobbing	 of Fob
Fob	 To beat
Fob	 To cheat
Focal	 Belonging to,or concerning, a focus; as, a focal point.
Focalization	 The act of focalizing or bringing to a focus, or the state of being focalized.
Focalized	 of Focalize
Focalizing	 of Focalize
Focalize	 To bring to a focus
Focillate	 To nourish.
Focillation	 Comfort
Focimeter	 An assisting instrument for focusing an object in or before a camera.
Focuses	 of Focus
Foci	 of Focus
Focus	 A point in which the rays of light meet, after being reflected or refrcted, and at which the image is formed; as, the focus of a lens or mirror.
Focus	 A point so related to a conic section and certain straight line called the directrix that the ratio of the distace between any point of the curve and the focus to the distance of the same point from the directrix is constant.
Focus	 A central point
Focused	 of Focus
Focusing	 of Focus
Focus	 To bring to a focus; to focalize; as, to focus a camera.
Fodder	 A weight by which lead and some other metals were formerly sold, in England, varying from 19/ to 24 cwt.; a fother.
Fodder	 That which is fed out to cattle horses, and sheep, as hay, cornstalks, vegetables, etc.
Foddered	 of Fodder
Foddering	 of Fodder
Fodder	 To feed, as cattle, with dry food or cut grass, etc.;to furnish with hay, straw, oats, etc.
Fodderer	 One who fodders cattle.
Fodient	 Fitted for, or pertaining to, digging.
Fodient	 One of the Fodientia.
Fodientia	 A group of African edentates including the aard-vark.
Foe	 One who entertains personal enmity, hatred, grudge, or malice, against another; an enemy.
Foe	 An enemy in war
Foe	 One who opposes on principle; an opponent; an adversary; an ill-wisher; as, a foe to religion.
Foe	 To treat as an enemy.
Foehood	 Enmity.
Foemen	 of Foeman
Foeman	 An enemy in war.
Foetal	 Same as Fetal.
Foetation	 Same as Fetation.
Foeticide	 Same as Feticide.
Foetor	 Same as Fetor.
Foetus	 Same as Fetus.
Fog	 A second growth of grass
Fog	 Dead or decaying grass remaining on land through the winter
Fog	 To pasture cattle on the fog, or aftergrass, of; to eat off the fog from.
Fog	 To practice in a small or mean way
Fog	 Watery vapor condensed in the lower part of the atmosphere and disturbing its transparency. It differs from cloud only in being near the ground, and from mist in not approaching so nearly to fine rain. See Cloud.
Fog	 A state of mental confusion.
Fogged	 of Fog
Fogging	 of Fog
Fog	 To envelop, as with fog; to befog; to overcast; to darken; to obscure.
Fog	 To show indistinctly or become indistinct, as the picture on a negative sometimes does in the process of development.
Foge	 The Cornish name for a forge used for smelting tin.
Fo'gey	 See Fogy.
Fog'gage	 See 1st Fog.
Fog'ger	 One who fogs
Foggily	 In a foggy manner
Fogginess	 The state of being foggy.
Foggy	 Filled or abounding with fog, or watery exhalations; misty; as, a foggy atmosphere; a foggy morning.
Foggy	 Beclouded; dull; obscure; as, foggy ideas.
Fogie	 See Fogy.
Fogless	 Without fog
Fogies	 of Fogy
Fogy	 A dull old fellow; a person behind the times, over-conservative, or slow; -- usually preceded by old.
Fogyism	 The principles and conduct of a fogy.
Foh	 An exclamation of abhorrence or contempt
Fohist	 A Buddhist priest. See Fo.
Foible	 Weak
Foible	 A moral weakness
Foible	 The half of a sword blade or foil blade nearest the point
Foiled	 of Foil
Foiling	 of Foil
Foil	 To tread under foot
Foil	 To render (an effort or attempt) vain or nugatory
Foil	 To blunt; to dull; to spoil; as, to foil the scent in chase.
Foil	 To defile
Foil	 Failure of success when on the point of attainment
Foil	 A blunt weapon used in fencing, resembling a smallsword in the main, but usually lighter and having a button at the point.
Foil	 The track or trail of an animal.
Foil	 A leaf or very thin sheet of metal; as, brass foil; tin foil; gold foil.
Foil	 A thin leaf of sheet copper silvered and burnished, and afterwards coated with transparent colors mixed with isinglass; -- employed by jewelers to give color or brilliancy to pastes and inferior stones.
Foil	 Anything that serves by contrast of color or quality to adorn or set off another thing to advantage.
Foil	 A thin coat of tin, with quicksilver, laid on the back of a looking-glass, to cause reflection.
Foil	 The space between the cusps in Gothic architecture; a rounded or leaflike ornament, in windows, niches, etc. A group of foils is called trefoil, quatrefoil, quinquefoil, etc., according to the number of arcs of which it is composed.
Foilable	 Capable of being foiled.
Foiler	 One who foils or frustrates.
Foiling	 A foil.
Foiling	 The track of game (as deer) in the grass.
Foin	 The beech marten (Mustela foina). See Marten.
Foin	 A kind of fur, black at the top on a whitish ground, taken from the ferret or weasel of the same name.
Foin	 To thrust with a sword or spear
Foin	 To prick
Foin	 A pass in fencing
Foinery	 Thrusting with the foil; fencing with the point, as distinguished from broadsword play.
Foiningly	 With a push or thrust.
Foison	 Rich harvest
Foist	 A light and fast-sailing ship.
Foisted	 of Foist
Foisting	 of Foist
Foist	 To insert surreptitiously, wrongfully, or without warrant; to interpolate; to pass off (something spurious or counterfeit) as genuine, true, or worthy; -- usually followed by in.
Foist	 A foister
Foist	 A trick or fraud
Foister	 One who foists something surreptitiously
Foistied	 Fusty.
Foistiness	 Fustiness
Foisty	 Fusty
Folded	 of Fold
Folding	 of Fold
Fold	 To lap or lay in plaits or folds; to lay one part over another part of; to double; as, to fold cloth; to fold a letter.
Fold	 To double or lay together, as the arms or the hands; as, he folds his arms in despair.
Fold	 To inclose within folds or plaitings
Fold	 To cover or wrap up
Fold	 To become folded, plaited, or doubled; to close over another of the same kind; to double together; as, the leaves of the door fold.
Fold	 A doubling,esp. of any flexible substance; a part laid over on another part; a plait; a plication.
Fold	 Times or repetitions; -- used with numerals, chiefly in composition, to denote multiplication or increase in a geometrical ratio, the doubling, tripling, etc., of anything; as, fourfold, four times, increased in a quadruple ratio, multiplied by four.
Fold	 That which is folded together, or which infolds or envelops; embrace.
Fold	 An inclosure for sheep
Fold	 A flock of sheep; figuratively, the Church or a church; as, Christ's fold.
Fold	 A boundary
Fold	 To confine in a fold, as sheep.
Fold	 To confine sheep in a fold.
Foldage	 See Faldage.
Folder	 One who, or that which, folds; esp., a flat, knifelike instrument used for folding paper.
Folderol	 Nonsense.
Folding	 The act of making a fold or folds; also, a fold; a doubling; a plication.
Folding	 The keepig of sheep in inclosures on arable land, etc.
Foldless	 Having no fold.
Foliaceous	 Belonging to, or having the texture or nature of, a leaf; having leaves intermixed with flowers; as, a foliaceous spike.
Foliaceous	 Consisting of leaves or thin laminae; having the form of a leaf or plate; as, foliaceous spar.
Foliaceous	 Leaflike in form or mode of growth; as, a foliaceous coral.
Foliage	 Leaves, collectively, as produced or arranged by nature; leafage; as, a tree or forest of beautiful foliage.
Foliage	 A cluster of leaves, flowers, and branches; especially, the representation of leaves, flowers, and branches, in architecture, intended to ornament and enrich capitals, friezes, pediments, etc.
Foliage	 To adorn with foliage or the imitation of foliage
Foliaged	 Furnished with foliage; leaved; as, the variously foliaged mulberry.
Foliar	 Consisting of, or pertaining to, leaves; as, foliar appendages.
Foliate	 Furnished with leaves; leafy; as, a foliate stalk.
Foliated	 of Foliate
Foliating	 of Foliate
Foliate	 To beat into a leaf, or thin plate.
Foliate	 To spread over with a thin coat of tin and quicksilver; as, to foliate a looking-glass.
Foliated	 Having leaves, or leaflike projections; as, a foliated shell.
Foliated	 Containing, or consisting of, foils; as, a foliated arch.
Foliated	 Characterized by being separable into thin plates or folia; as, graphite has a foliated structure.
Foliated	 Laminated, but restricted to the variety of laminated structure found in crystalline schist, as mica schist, etc.; schistose.
Foliated	 Spread over with an amalgam of tin and quicksilver.
Foliation	 The process of forming into a leaf or leaves.
Foliation	 The manner in which the young leaves are dispo/ed within the bud.
Foliation	 The act of beating a metal into a thin plate, leaf, foil, or lamina.
Foliation	 The act of coating with an amalgam of tin foil and quicksilver, as in making looking-glasses.
Foliation	 The enrichment of an opening by means of foils, arranged in trefoils, quatrefoils, etc.; also, one of the ornaments. See Tracery.
Foliation	 The property, possessed by some crystalline rocks, of dividing into plates or slabs, which is due to the cleavage structure of one of the constituents, as mica or hornblende. It may sometimes include slaty structure or cleavage, though the latter is usually independent of any mineral constituent, and transverse to the bedding, it having been produced by pressure.
Foliature	 Foliage
Foliature	 The state of being beaten into foil.
Folier	 Goldsmith's foil.
Foliferous	 Producing leaves.
Folily	 Foolishly.
Folios	 of Folio
Folio	 A leaf of a book or manuscript.
Folio	 A sheet of paper once folded.
Folio	 A book made of sheets of paper each folded once (four pages to the sheet); hence, a book of the largest kind. See Note under Paper.
Folio	 The page number. The even folios are on the left-hand pages and the odd folios on the right-hand.
Folio	 A page of a book; (Bookkeeping) a page in an account book; sometimes, two opposite pages bearing the same serial number.
Folio	 A leaf containing a certain number of words, hence, a certain number of words in a writing, as in England, in law proceedings 72, and in chancery, 90; in New York, 100 words.
Fol'io	 To put a serial number on each folio or page of (a book)
Fol'io	 Formed of sheets each folded once, making two leaves, or four pages; as, a folio volume. See Folio, n., 3.
Fo'liolate	 Of or pertaining to leaflets; -- used in composition; as, bi-foliolate.
Foliole	 One of the distinct parts of a compound leaf
Foliomort	 See Feuillemort.
Foliose	 Having many leaves
Foliosity	 The ponderousness or bulk of a folio
Folious	 Like a leaf
Folious	 Foliose.
Foliums	 of Folium
Folia	 of Folium
Folium	 A leaf, esp. a thin leaf or plate.
Folium	 A curve of the third order, consisting of two infinite branches, which have a common asymptote. The curve has a double point, and a leaf-shaped loop; whence the name. Its equation is x3 + y3 = axy.
Folk	 Alt. of Folks
Folks	 In Anglo-Saxon times, the people of a group of townships or villages; a community; a tribe.
Folks	 People in general, or a separate class of people; -- generally used in the plural form, and often with a qualifying adjective; as, the old folks; poor folks.
Folks	 The persons of one's own family; as, our folks are all well.
Folkland	 Land held in villenage, being distributed among the folk, or people, at the pleasure of the lord of the manor, and resumed at his discretion. Not being held by any assurance in writing, it was opposed to bookland or charter land, which was held by deed.
Folklore	 Alt. of Folk lore
Folk	 lore Tales, legends, or superstitions long current among the people.
Folkmote	 An assembly of the people
Folkmote	 a general assembly of the people to consider and order matters of the commonwealth; also, a local court.
Folkmoter	 One who takes part in a folkmote, or local court.
Follicle	 A simple podlike pericarp which contains several seeds and opens along the inner or ventral suture, as in the peony, larkspur and milkweed.
Follicle	 A small cavity, tubular depression, or sac; as, a hair follicle.
Follicle	 A simple gland or glandular cavity
Follicle	 A small mass of adenoid tissue; as, a lymphatic follicle.
Follicular	 Like, pertaining to, or consisting of, a follicles or follicles.
Follicular	 Affecting the follicles; as, follicular pharyngitis.
Folliculated	 Having follicles.
Folliculous	 Having or producing follicles.
Folliful	 Full of folly.
Followed	 of Follow
Following	 of Follow
Follow	 To go or come after; to move behind in the same path or direction; hence, to go with (a leader, guide, etc.); to accompany; to attend.
Follow	 To endeavor to overtake
Follow	 To accept as authority; to adopt the opinions of; to obey; to yield to; to take as a rule of action; as, to follow good advice.
Follow	 To copy after
Follow	 To succeed in order of time, rank, or office.
Follow	 To result from, as an effect from a cause, or an inference from a premise.
Follow	 To watch, as a receding object; to keep the eyes fixed upon while in motion; to keep the mind upon while in progress, as a speech, musical performance, etc.; also, to keep up with; to understand the meaning, connection, or force of, as of a course of thought or argument.
Follow	 To walk in, as a road or course; to attend upon closely, as a profession or calling.
Follow	 To go or come after
Follower	 One who follows
Follower	 A sweetheart
Follower	 The removable flange, or cover, of a piston. See Illust. of Piston.
Follower	 A gland. See Illust. of Stuffing box.
Follower	 The part of a machine that receives motion from another part. See Driver.
Follower	 Among law stationers, a sheet of parchment or paper which is added to the first sheet of an indenture or other deed.
Following	 One's followers, adherents, or dependents, collectively.
Following	 Vocation
Following	 Next after; succeeding; ensuing; as, the assembly was held on the following day.
Following	 (In the field of a telescope) In the direction from which stars are apparently moving (in consequence of the earth's rotation); as, a small star, north following or south following. In the direction toward which stars appear to move is called preceding.
Follies	 of Folly
Folly	 The state of being foolish; want of good sense; levity, weakness, or derangement of mind.
Folly	 A foolish act
Folly	 Scandalous crime; sin; specifically, as applied to a woman, wantonness.
Folly	 The result of a foolish action or enterprise.
Folwe	 To follow.
Fomalhaut	 A star of the first magnitude, in the constellation Piscis Australis, or Southern Fish.
Fomented	 of Foment
Fomenting	 of Foment
Foment	 To apply a warm lotion to
Foment	 To cherish with heat
Foment	 To nurse to life or activity; to cherish and promote by excitements; to encourage; to abet; to instigate; -- used often in a bad sense; as, to foment ill humors.
Fomentation	 The act of fomenting; the application of warm, soft, medicinal substances, as for the purpose of easing pain, by relaxing the skin, or of discussing tumors.
Fomentation	 The lotion applied to a diseased part.
Fomentation	 Excitation
Fomenter	 One who foments; one who encourages or instigates; as, a fomenter of sedition.
Fomites	 of Fomes
Fomes	 Any substance supposed to be capable of absorbing, retaining, and transporting contagious or infectious germs; as, woolen clothes are said to be active fomites.
Fon	 A fool
Fond	 imp. of Find. Found.
Fond	 Foolish
Fond	 Foolishly tender and loving
Fond	 Affectionate; loving; tender; -- in a good sense; as, a fond mother or wife.
Fond	 Loving; much pleased; affectionately regardful, indulgent, or desirous; longing or yearning; -- followed by of (formerly also by on).
Fond	 Doted on
Fond	 Trifling
Fond	 To caress
Fond	 To be fond
Fonde	 To endeavor
Fondled	 of Fondle
Fondling	 of Fondle
Fondle	 To treat or handle with tenderness or in a loving manner; to caress; as, a nurse fondles a child.
Fondler	 One who fondles.
Fondling	 The act of caressing
Fondling	 A person or thing fondled or caressed
Fondling	 A fool
Fondly	 Foolishly.
Fondly	 In a fond manner
Fondness	 The quality or state of being fond
Fondness	 Doting affection; tender liking; strong appetite, propensity, or relish; as, he had a fondness for truffles.
Fondon	 A large copper vessel used for hot amalgamation.
Fondus	 A style of printing calico, paper hangings, etc., in which the colors are in bands and graduated into each other.
Fone	 pl. of Foe.
Fonge	 To take
Fonly	 Foolishly
Fonne	 A fon.
Font	 A complete assortment of printing type of one size, including a due proportion of all the letters in the alphabet, large and small, points, accents, and whatever else is necessary for printing with that variety of types; a fount.
Font	 A fountain
Font	 A basin or stone vessel in which water is contained for baptizing.
Fontal	 Pertaining to a font, fountain, source, or origin; original; primitive.
Fontanel	 An issue or artificial ulcer for the discharge of humors from the body.
Fontanel	 One of the membranous intervals between the incompleted angles of the parietal and neighboring bones of a fetal or young skull
Fontanelle	 Same as Fontanel, 2.
Fontange	 A kind of tall headdress formerly worn.
Food	 What is fed upon; that which goes to support life by being received within, and assimilated by, the organism of an animal or a plant; nutriment; aliment; especially, what is eaten by animals for nourishment.
Food	 Anything that instructs the intellect, excites the feelings, or molds habits of character; that which nourishes.
Food	 To supply with food.
Foodful	 Full of food
Foodless	 Without food
Foody	 Eatable
Fool	 A compound of gooseberries scalded and crushed, with cream; -- commonly called gooseberry fool.
Fool	 One destitute of reason, or of the common powers of understanding; an idiot; a natural.
Fool	 A person deficient in intellect; one who acts absurdly, or pursues a course contrary to the dictates of wisdom; one without judgment; a simpleton; a dolt.
Fool	 One who acts contrary to moral and religious wisdom
Fool	 One who counterfeits folly; a professional jester or buffoon; a retainer formerly kept to make sport, dressed fantastically in motley, with ridiculous accouterments.
Fooled	 of Fool
Fooling	 of Fool
Fool	 To play the fool
Fool	 To infatuate
Fool	 To use as a fool; to deceive in a shameful or mortifying manner; to impose upon; to cheat by inspiring foolish confidence; as, to fool one out of his money.
Foolahs	 Same as Fulahs.
Fool-born	 Begotten by a fool.
Fooleries	 of Foolery
Foolery	 The practice of folly
Foolery	 An act of folly or weakness
Foolfish	 The orange filefish. See Filefish.
Foolfish	 The winter flounder. See Flounder.
Fool-happy	 Lucky, without judgment or contrivance.
Foolhardihood	 The state of being foolhardy
Foolhardily	 In a foolhardy manner.
Foolhardiness	 Courage without sense or judgment
Foolhardise	 Foolhardiness.
Foolhardy	 Daring without judgment
Fool-hasty	 Foolishly hasty.
Foolify	 To make a fool of
Foolish	 Marked with, or exhibiting, folly; void of understanding; weak in intellect; without judgment or discretion; silly; unwise.
Foolish	 Such as a fool would do; proceeding from weakness of mind or silliness; exhibiting a want of judgment or discretion; as, a foolish act.
Foolish	 Absurd
Foolishly	 In a foolish manner.
Foolishness	 The quality of being foolish.
Foolishness	 A foolish practice
Fool-large	 Foolishly liberal.
Fool-largesse	 Foolish expenditure
Foolscap	 A writing paper made in sheets, ordinarily 16 x 13 inches, and folded so as to make a page 13 x 8 inches. See Paper.
Feet	 of Foot
Foot	 The terminal part of the leg of man or an animal; esp., the part below the ankle or wrist; that part of an animal upon which it rests when standing, or moves. See Manus, and Pes.
Foot	 The muscular locomotive organ of a mollusk. It is a median organ arising from the ventral region of body, often in the form of a flat disk, as in snails. See Illust. of Buccinum.
Foot	 That which corresponds to the foot of a man or animal; as, the foot of a table; the foot of a stocking.
Foot	 The lowest part or base; the ground part; the bottom, as of a mountain or column; also, the last of a row or series; the end or extremity, esp. if associated with inferiority; as, the foot of a hill; the foot of the procession; the foot of a class; the foot of the bed.
Foot	 Fundamental principle
Foot	 Recognized condition
Foot	 A measure of length equivalent to twelve inches
Foot	 Soldiers who march and fight on foot; the infantry, usually designated as the foot, in distinction from the cavalry.
Foot	 A combination of syllables consisting a metrical element of a verse, the syllables being formerly distinguished by their quantity or length, but in modern poetry by the accent.
Foot	 The lower edge of a sail.
Footed	 of Foot
Footing	 of Foot
Foot	 To tread to measure or music
Foot	 To walk
Foot	 To kick with the foot
Foot	 To set on foot
Foot	 To tread; as, to foot the green.
Foot	 To sum up, as the numbers in a column; -- sometimes with up; as, to foot (or foot up) an account.
Foot	 The size or strike with the talon.
Foot	 To renew the foot of, as of stocking.
Football	 An inflated ball to be kicked in sport, usually made in India rubber, or a bladder incased in Leather.
Football	 The game of kicking the football by opposing parties of players between goals.
Footband	 A band of foot soldiers.
Footbath	 A bath for the feet; also, a vessel used in bathing the feet.
Footboard	 A board or narrow platfrom upon which one may stand or brace his feet
Footboard	 The platform for the engineer and fireman of a locomotive.
Footboard	 The foot-rest of a coachman's box.
Footboard	 A board forming the foot of a bedstead.
Footboard	 A treadle.
Footboy	 A page
Footbreadth	 The breadth of a foot
Footbridge	 A narrow bridge for foot passengers only.
Footcloth	 Formerly, a housing or caparison for a horse.
Footed	 Having a foot or feet
Footed	 Having a foothold
Footfall	 A setting down of the foot
Footfight	 A conflict by persons on foot
Footglove	 A kind of stocking.
Foot	 Guards Infantry soldiers belonging to select regiments called the Guards.
Foothalt	 A disease affecting the feet of sheep.
Foothill	 A low hill at the foot of higher hills or mountains.
Foothold	 A holding with the feet
Foothook	 See Futtock.
Foothot	 Hastily
Footing	 Ground for the foot
Footing	 Standing
Footing	 Relative condition
Footing	 Tread; step; especially, measured tread.
Footing	 The act of adding up a column of figures
Footing	 The act of putting a foot to anything; also, that which is added as a foot; as, the footing of a stocking.
Footing	 A narrow cotton lace, without figures.
Footing	 The finer refuse part of whale blubber, not wholly deprived of oil.
Footing	 The thickened or sloping portion of a wall, or of an embankment at its foot.
Footless	 Having no feet.
Footlicker	 A sycophant
Footlight	 One of a row of lights in the front of the stage in a theater, etc., and on a level therewith.
Footmen	 of Footman
Footman	 A soldier who marches and fights on foot
Footman	 A man in waiting; a male servant whose duties are to attend the door, the carriage, the table, etc.
Footman	 Formerly, a servant who ran in front of his master's carriage; a runner.
Footman	 A metallic stand with four feet, for keeping anything warm before a fire.
Footman	 A moth of the family Lithosidae
Footmanship	 Art or skill of a footman.
Footmark	 A footprint
Footnote	 A note of reference or comment at the foot of a page.
Footpace	 A walking pace or step.
Footpace	 A dais, or elevated platform; the highest step of the altar; a landing in a staircase.
Footpad	 A highwayman or robber on foot.
Footpaths	 of Footpath
Footpath	 A narrow path or way for pedestrains only
Footplate	 See Footboard (a).
Foot	 pound A unit of energy, or work, being equal to the work done in raising one pound avoirdupois against the force of gravity the height of one foot.
Foot	 poundal A unit of energy or work, equal to the work done in moving a body through one foot against the force of one poundal.
Footprint	 The impression of the foot; a trace or footmark; as, "Footprints of the Creator."
Footrope	 The rope rigged below a yard, upon which men stand when reefing or furling; -- formerly called a horse.
Footrope	 That part of the boltrope to which the lower edge of a sail is sewed.
Foots	 The settlings of oil, molasses, etc., at the bottom of a barrel or hogshead.
Foot-sore	 Having sore or tender feet, as by reason of much walking; as, foot-sore cattle.
Footstalk	 The stalk of a leaf or of flower; a petiole, pedicel, or reduncle.
Footstalk	 The peduncle or stem by which various marine animals are attached, as certain brachiopods and goose barnacles.
Footstalk	 The stem which supports which supports the eye in decapod Crustacea
Footstalk	 The lower part of a millstone spindle. It rests in a step.
Footstall	 The stirrup of a woman's saddle.
Footstall	 The plinth or base of a pillar.
Footstep	 The mark or impression of the foot; a track; hence, visible sign of a course pursued; token; mark; as, the footsteps of divine wisdom.
Footstep	 An inclined plane under a hand printing press.
Footstone	 The stone at the foot of a grave
Footstool	 A low stool to support the feet of one when sitting.
Footway	 A passage for pedestrians only.
Footworn	 Worn by, or weared in, the feet; as, a footworn path; a footworn traveler.
Footy	 Having foots, or settlings; as, footy oil, molasses, etc.
Footy	 Poor
Fop	 One whose ambition it is to gain admiration by showy dress
Fop-doodle	 A stupid or insignificant fellow
Fopling	 A petty fop.
Fopperies	 of Foppery
Foppery	 The behavior, dress, or other indication of a fop; coxcombry; affectation of show; showy folly.
Foppery	 Folly
Foppish	 Foplike
For-	 A prefix to verbs, having usually the force of a negative or privative. It often implies also loss, detriment, or destruction, and sometimes it is intensive, meaning utterly, quite thoroughly, as in forbathe.
For	 In the most general sense, indicating that in consideration of, in view of, or with reference to, which anything is done or takes place.
For	 Indicating the antecedent cause or occasion of an action
For	 Indicating the remoter and indirect object of an act; the end or final cause with reference to which anything is, acts, serves, or is done.
For	 Indicating that in favor of which, or in promoting which, anything is, or is done; hence, in behalf of; in favor of; on the side of; -- opposed to against.
For	 Indicating that toward which the action of anything is directed, or the point toward which motion is made; /ntending to go to.
For	 Indicating that on place of or instead of which anything acts or serves, or that to which a substitute, an equivalent, a compensation, or the like, is offered or made; instead of, or place of.
For	 Indicating that in the character of or as being which anything is regarded or treated; to be, or as being.
For	 Indicating that instead of which something else controls in the performing of an action, or that in spite of which anything is done, occurs, or is; hence, equivalent to notwithstanding, in spite of; -- generally followed by all, aught, anything, etc.
For	 Indicating the space or time through which an action or state extends; hence, during; in or through the space or time of.
For	 Indicating that in prevention of which, or through fear of which, anything is done.
For	 Because; by reason that; for that; indicating, in Old English, the reason of anything.
For	 Since; because; introducing a reason of something before advanced, a cause, motive, explanation, justification, or the like, of an action related or a statement made. It is logically nearly equivalent to since, or because, but connects less closely, and is sometimes used as a very general introduction to something suggested by what has gone before.
For	 One who takes, or that which is said on, the affrimative side; that which is said in favor of some one or something; -- the antithesis of against, and commonly used in connection with it.
Forage	 The act of foraging; search for provisions, etc.
Forage	 Food of any kind for animals, especially for horses and cattle, as grass, pasture, hay, corn, oats.
Foraged	 of Forage
Foraging	 of Forage
Forage	 To wander or rove in search of food; to collect food, esp. forage, for horses and cattle by feeding on or stripping the country; to ravage; to feed on spoil.
Forage	 To strip of provisions; to supply with forage; as, to forage steeds.
Forager	 One who forages.
Foralite	 A tubelike marking, occuring in sandstone and other strata.
Foramina	 of Foramen
Foramines	 of Foramen
Foramen	 A small opening, perforation, or orifice; a fenestra.
Foraminated	 Having small opening, or foramina.
Foraminifer	 One of the foraminifera.
Foraminifera	 An extensive order of rhizopods which generally have a chambered calcareous shell formed by several united zooids. Many of them have perforated walls, whence the name. Some species are covered with sand. See Rhizophoda.
Foraminiferous	 Having small openings, or foramina.
Foraminiferous	 Pertaining to, or composed of, Foraminifera; as, foraminiferous mud.
Foraminous	 Having foramina
Forasmuch	 In consideration that; seeing that; since; because that; -- followed by as. See under For, prep.
Foray	 A sudden or irregular incursion in border warfare; hence, any irregular incursion for war or spoils; a raid.
Foray	 To pillage
Forayer	 One who makes or joins in a foray.
Forbade	 imp. of Forbid.
Forbathe	 To bathe.
Forbear	 An ancestor
Forbore	 of Forbear
Forbare	 of Forbear
Forborne	 of Forbear
Forbearing	 of Forbear
Forbear	 To refrain from proceeding
Forbear	 To refuse
Forbear	 To control one's self when provoked.
Forbear	 To keep away from; to avoid; to abstain from; to give up; as, to forbear the use of a word of doubdtful propriety.
Forbear	 To treat with consideration or indulgence.
Forbear	 To cease from bearing.
Forbearance	 The act of forbearing or waiting
Forbearance	 The quality of being forbearing
Forbearant	 Forbearing.
Forbearer	 One who forbears.
Forbearing	 Disposed or accustomed to forbear
Forbade	 of Forbid
Forbidden	 of Forbid
Forbid	 of Forbid
Forbidding	 of Forbid
Forbid	 To command against, or contrary to; to prohibit; to interdict.
Forbid	 To deny, exclude from, or warn off, by express command; to command not to enter.
Forbid	 To oppose, hinder, or prevent, as if by an effectual command; as, an impassable river forbids the approach of the army.
Forbid	 To accurse
Forbid	 To defy
Forbid	 To utter a prohibition
Forbiddance	 The act of forbidding
Forbidden	 Prohibited
Forbiddenly	 In a forbidden or unlawful manner.
Forbidder	 One who forbids.
Forbidding	 Repelling approach; repulsive; raising abhorrence, aversion, or dislike; disagreeable; prohibiting or interdicting; as, a forbidding aspect; a forbidding formality; a forbidding air.
Forblack	 Very black.
Forboden	 p. p. of Forbid.
Forbore	 imp. of Forbear.
Forborne	 p. p. of Forbear.
Forbruise	 To bruise sorely or exceedingly.
Forby	 Near
Forcarve	 To cut completely
Force	 To stuff
Force	 A waterfall
Force	 Strength or energy of body or mind; active power; vigor; might; often, an unusual degree of strength or energy; capacity of exercising an influence or producing an effect; especially, power to persuade, or convince, or impose obligation; pertinency; validity; special signification; as, the force of an appeal, an argument, a contract, or a term.
Force	 Power exerted against will or consent
Force	 Strength or power for war; hence, a body of land or naval combatants, with their appurtenances, ready for action; -- an armament; troops; warlike array; -- often in the plural; hence, a body of men prepared for action in other ways; as, the laboring force of a plantation.
Force	 Strength or power exercised without law, or contrary to law, upon persons or things; violence.
Force	 Validity
Force	 Any action between two bodies which changes, or tends to change, their relative condition as to rest or motion; or, more generally, which changes, or tends to change, any physical relation between them, whether mechanical, thermal, chemical, electrical, magnetic, or of any other kind; as, the force of gravity; cohesive force; centrifugal force.
Forced	 of Force
Forcing	 of Force
Force	 To constrain to do or to forbear, by the exertion of a power not resistible; to compel by physical, moral, or intellectual means; to coerce; as, masters force slaves to labor.
Force	 To compel, as by strength of evidence; as, to force conviction on the mind.
Force	 To do violence to; to overpower, or to compel by violence to one;s will; especially, to ravish; to violate; to commit rape upon.
Force	 To obtain or win by strength; to take by violence or struggle; specifically, to capture by assault; to storm, as a fortress.
Force	 To impel, drive, wrest, extort, get, etc., by main strength or violence; -- with a following adverb, as along, away, from, into, through, out, etc.
Force	 To put in force
Force	 To exert to the utmost; to urge; hence, to strain; to urge to excessive, unnatural, or untimely action; to produce by unnatural effort; as, to force a consient or metaphor; to force a laugh; to force fruits.
Force	 To compel (an adversary or partner) to trump a trick by leading a suit of which he has none.
Force	 To provide with forces
Force	 To allow the force of
Force	 To use violence
Force	 To make a difficult matter of anything; to labor; to hesitate; hence, to force of, to make much account of; to regard.
Force	 To be of force, importance, or weight; to matter.
Forced	 Done or produced with force or great labor, or by extraordinary exertion; hurried; strained; produced by unnatural effort or pressure; as, a forced style; a forced laugh.
Forceful	 Full of or processing force
Forceless	 Having little or no force
Forcemeat	 Meat chopped fine and highly seasoned, either served up alone, or used as a stuffing.
Forcement	 The act of forcing
Forceps	 A pair of pinchers, or tongs; an instrument for grasping, holding firmly, or exerting traction upon, bodies which it would be inconvenient or impracticable to seize with the fingers, especially one for delicate operations, as those of watchmakers, surgeons, accoucheurs, dentists, etc.
Forceps	 The caudal forceps-shaped appendage of earwigs and some other insects. See Earwig.
Force	 pump A pump having a solid piston, or plunger, for drawing and forcing a liquid, as water, through the valves; in distinction from a pump having a bucket, or valved piston.
Force	 pump A pump adapted for delivering water at a considerable height above the pump, or under a considerable pressure; in distinction from one which lifts the water only to the top of the pump or delivers it through a spout. See Illust. of Plunger pump, under Plunger.
Forcer	 One who, or that which, forces or drives.
Forcer	 The solid piston of a force pump
Forcer	 A small hand pump for sinking pits, draining cellars, etc.
Forcible	 Possessing force; characterized by force, efficiency, or energy; powerful; efficacious; impressive; influential.
Forcible	 Violent
Forcible	 Using force against opposition or resistance; obtained by compulsion; effected by force; as, forcible entry or abduction.
Forcible-feeble	 Seemingly vigorous, but really weak or insipid.
Forcibleness	 The quality of being forcible.
Forcibly	 In a forcible manner.
Forcing	 The accomplishing of any purpose violently, precipitately, prematurely, or with unusual expedition.
Forcing	 The art of raising plants, flowers, and fruits at an earlier season than the natural one, as in a hitbed or by the use of artificial heat.
Forcipal	 Forked or branched like a pair of forceps
Forcipate	 Alt. of Forcipated
Forcipated	 Like a pair of forceps; as, a forcipated mouth.
Forcipation	 Torture by pinching with forceps or pinchers.
Forcut	 To cut completely
Ford	 A place in a river, or other water, where it may be passed by man or beast on foot, by wading.
Ford	 A stream
Forded	 of Ford
Fording	 of Ford
Ford	 To pass or cross, as a river or other water, by wading; to wade through.
Fordable	 Capable of being forded.
Fordless	 Without a ford.
Fordo	 To destroy
Fordo	 To overcome with fatigue
Fordone	 Undone
Fordrive	 To drive about
Fordrunken	 Utterly drunk
Fordry	 Entirely dry
Fordwine	 To dwindle away
Fore	 Journey
Fore	 In the part that precedes or goes first; -- opposed to aft, after, back, behind, etc.
Fore	 Formerly
Fore	 In or towards the bows of a ship.
Fore	 Advanced, as compared with something else; toward the front; being or coming first, in time, place, order, or importance; preceding; anterior; antecedent; earlier; forward; -- opposed to back or behind; as, the fore part of a garment; the fore part of the day; the fore and of a wagon.
Fore	 The front; hence, that which is in front; the future.
Fore	 Before
Foreadmonish	 To admonish beforehand, or before the act or event.
Foreadvise	 To advise or counsel before the time of action, or before the event.
Forealleged	 of Foreallege
Forealleging	 of Foreallege
Foreallege	 To allege or cite before.
Foreappoint	 To set, order, or appoint, beforehand.
Foreappointment	 Previous appointment
Forearm	 To arm or prepare for attack or resistance before the time of need.
Forearm	 That part of the arm or fore limb between the elbow and wrist
Forebeam	 The breast beam of a loom.
Forebear	 An ancestor. See Forbear.
Foreboded	 of Forebode
Foreboding	 of Forebode
Forebode	 To foretell.
Forebode	 To be prescient of (some ill or misfortune); to have an inward conviction of, as of a calamity which is about to happen; to augur despondingly.
Forebode	 To fortell
Forebode	 Prognostication
Forebodement	 The act of foreboding
Foreboder	 One who forebodes.
Foreboding	 Presage of coming ill
Forebodingly	 In a foreboding manner.
Forebrace	 A rope applied to the fore yardarm, to change the position of the foresail.
Forebrain	 The anterior of the three principal divisions of the brain, including the prosencephalon and thalamencephalon. Sometimes restricted to the prosencephalon only. See Brain.
Foreby	 Near
Forecast	 To plan beforehand
Forecast	 To foresee; to calculate beforehand, so as to provide for.
Forecast	 To contrive or plan beforehand.
Forecast	 Previous contrivance or determination
Forecast	 Foresight of consequences, and provision against them; prevision; premeditation.
Forecaster	 One who forecast.
Forecastle	 A short upper deck forward, formerly raised like a castle, to command an enemy's decks.
Forecastle	 That part of the upper deck of a vessel forward of the foremast, or of the after part of the fore channels.
Forecastle	 In merchant vessels, the forward part of the vessel, under the deck, where the sailors live.
Forechosen	 Chosen beforehand.
Forecited	 Cited or quoted before or above.
Foreclosed	 of Foreclose
Foreclosing	 of Foreclose
Foreclose	 To shut up or out
Foreclosure	 The act or process of foreclosing
Foreconceive	 To preconceive
Foredate	 To date before the true time
Foredeck	 The fore part of a deck, or of a ship.
Foredeem	 To recognize or judge in advance
Foredeem	 To know or discover beforehand
Foredesign	 To plan beforehand
Foredetermine	 To determine or decree beforehand.
Foredispose	 To bestow beforehand.
Foredoom	 To doom beforehand
Foredoom	 Doom or sentence decreed in advance.
Forefather	 One who precedes another in the line of genealogy in any degree, but usually in a remote degree; an ancestor.
Forefeel	 To feel beforehand
Forefence	 Defense in front.
Forefend	 To hinder
Forefinger	 The finger next to the thumb
Foreflow	 To flow before.
Forefoot	 One of the anterior feet of a quardruped or multiped
Forefoot	 A piece of timber which terminates the keel at the fore end, connecting it with the lower end of the stem.
Foreefront	 Foremost part or place.
Foregame	 A first game
Foreganger	 A short rope grafted on a harpoon, to which a longer lin/ may be attached.
Foregather	 Same as Forgather.
Foregift	 A premium paid by / lessee when taking his lease.
Foregleam	 An antecedent or premonitory gleam
Forewent	 2 of Forego
Foregone	 of Forego
Foregoing	 of Forego
Forego	 To quit
Forego	 To relinquish the enjoyment or advantage of; to give up; to resign; to renounce; -- said of a thing already enjoyed, or of one within reach, or anticipated.
Forego	 To go before
Foregoer	 One who goes before another; a predecessor; hence, an ancestor' a progenitor.
Foregoer	 A purveyor of the king; -- so called, formerly, from going before to provide for his household.
Foregoer	 One who forbears to enjoy.
Foreground	 On a painting, and sometimes in a bas-relief, mosaic picture, or the like, that part of the scene represented, which is nearest to the spectator, and therefore occupies the lowest part of the work of art itself. Cf. Distance, n., 6.
Foreguess	 To conjecture.
Foregut	 The anterior part of the alimentary canal, from the mouth to the intestine, o/ to the entrance of the bile duct.
Forehand	 All that part of a horse which is before the rider.
Forehand	 The chief or most important part.
Forehand	 Superiority
Forehand	 Done beforehand
Forehanded	 Early
Forehanded	 Beforehand with one's needs, or having resources in advance of one's necessities; in easy circumstances; as, a forehanded farmer.
Forehanded	 Formed in the forehand or fore parts.
Forehead	 The front of that part of the head which incloses the brain
Forehead	 The aspect or countenance
Forehead	 The front or fore part of anything.
Forehear	 To hear beforehand.
Forehearth	 The forward extension of the hearth of a blast furnace under the tymp.
Forehend	 See Forhend.
Forehew	 To hew or cut in front.
Forehold	 The forward part of the hold of a ship.
Foreholding	 Ominous foreboding
Forehook	 A piece of timber placed across the stem, to unite the bows and strengthen the fore part of the ship; a breast hook.
Foreign	 Outside; extraneous; separated; alien; as, a foreign country; a foreign government.
Foreign	 Not native or belonging to a certain country; born in or belonging to another country, nation, sovereignty, or locality; as, a foreign language; foreign fruits.
Foreign	 Remote; distant; strange; not belonging; not connected; not pertaining or pertient; not appropriate; not harmonious; not agreeable; not congenial; -- with to or from; as, foreign to the purpose; foreign to one's nature.
Foreign	 Held at a distance
Foreigner	 A person belonging to or owning allegiance to a foreign country; one not native in the country or jurisdiction under consideration, or not naturalized there; an alien; a stranger.
Foreignism	 Anything peculiar to a foreign language or people
Foreignness	 The quality of being foreign
Forein	 Foreign.
Forejudge	 To judge beforehand, or before hearing the facts and proof; to prejudge.
Forejudge	 To expel from court for some offense or misconduct, as an attorney or officer; to deprive or put out of a thing by the judgment of a court.
Forejudger	 A judgment by which one is deprived or put of a right or thing in question.
Forejudgment	 Prejudgment.
Foreknew	 of Foreknow
Foreknown	 of Foreknow
Foreknowing	 of Foreknow
Foreknow	 To have previous knowledge of
Foreknowa-ble	 That may be foreknown.
Foreknower	 One who foreknows.
Foreknowingly	 With foreknowledge.
Foreknowledge	 Knowledge of a thing before it happens, or of whatever is to happen; prescience.
Forel	 A kind of parchment for book covers. See Forrill.
Forel	 To bind with a forel.
Foreland	 A promontory or cape; a headland; as, the North and South Foreland in Kent, England.
Foreland	 A piece of ground between the wall of a place and the moat.
Foreland	 That portion of the natural shore on the outside of the embankment which receives the stock of waves and deadens their force.
Forelay	 To lay down beforehand.
Forelay	 To waylay. See Forlay.
Foreleader	 One who leads others by his example
Forelend	 See Forlend.
Forelet	 See Forlet.
Forelie	 To lie in front of.
Forelift	 To lift up in front.
Forelock	 The lock of hair that grows from the forepart of the head.
Forelock	 A cotter or split pin, as in a slot in a bolt, to prevent retraction; a linchpin; a pin fastening the cap-square of a gun.
Forelook	 To look beforehand or forward.
Foremen	 of Foreman
Foreman	 The first or chief man
Foreman	 The chief man of a jury, who acts as their speaker.
Foreman	 The chief of a set of hands employed in a shop, or on works of any kind, who superintends the rest; an overseer.
Foremast	 The mast nearest the bow.
Foremeant	 Intended beforehand
Forementioned	 Mentioned before
Foremilk	 The milk secreted just before, or directly after, the birth of a child or of the young of an animal; colostrum.
Foremost	 First in time or place; most advanced; chief in rank or dignity; as, the foremost troops of an army.
Foremostly	 In the foremost place or order
Foremother	 A female ancestor.
Forename	 A name that precedes the family name or surname
Forename	 To name or mention before.
Forenamed	 Named before
Forenenst	 Over against
Fore-night	 The evening between twilight and bedtime.
Forenoon	 The early part of the day, from morning to meridian, or noon.
Forenotice	 Notice or information of an event before it happens
Forensal	 Forensic.
Forensic	 Belonging to courts of judicature or to public discussion and debate; used in legal proceedings, or in public discussions; argumentative; rhetorical; as, forensic eloquence or disputes.
Forensic	 An exercise in debate
Forensical	 Forensic.
Foreordain	 To ordain or appoint beforehand
Foreordinate	 To foreordain.
Foreordination	 Previous ordination or appointment
Fore	 part Alt. of Forepart
Forepart	 The part most advanced, or first in time or in place; the beginning.
Forepast	 Bygone.
Forepossessed	 Holding or held formerly in possession.
Forepossessed	 Preoccupied
Foreprize	 To prize or rate beforehand.
Forepromised	 Promised beforehand
Forequoted	 Cited before
Foreran	 imp. of Forerun.
Forerank	 The first rank
Forereach	 To advance or gain upon
Forereach	 To shoot ahead, especially when going in stays.
Foreread	 To tell beforehand
Forerecited	 Named or recited before.
Foreremembered	 Called to mind previously.
Foreright	 Ready
Foreright	 Right forward
Forerun	 To turn before
Forerun	 To come before as an earnest of something to follow
Forerunner	 A messenger sent before to give notice of the approach of others; a harbinger; a sign foreshowing something; a prognostic; as, the forerunner of a fever.
Forerunner	 A predecessor
Forerunner	 A piece of rag terminating the log line.
Foresaid	 Mentioned before
Foresail	 The sail bent to the foreyard of a square-rigged vessel, being the lowest sail on the foremast.
Foresail	 The gaff sail set on the foremast of a schooner.
Foresail	 The fore staysail of a sloop, being the triangular sail next forward of the mast.
Foresay	 To foretell.
Foresee	 To see beforehand
Foresee	 To provide.
Foresee	 To have or exercise foresight.
Foreseen	 Provided
Foreseer	 One who foresees or foreknows.
Foreseize	 To seize beforehand.
Foreshadow	 To shadow or typi/y beforehand
Foreshew	 See Foreshow.
Foreship	 The fore part of a ship.
Foreshorten	 To represent on a plane surface, as if extended in a direction toward the spectator or nearly so; to shorten by drawing in perspective.
Foreshorten	 Fig.: To represent pictorially to the imagination.
Foreshortening	 Representation in a foreshortened mode or way.
Foreshot	 In distillation of low wines, the first portion of spirit that comes over, being a fluid abounding in fusel oil.
Foreshow	 To show or exhibit beforehand
Foreshower	 One who predicts.
Foreside	 The front side; the front; esp., a stretch of country fronting the sea.
Foreside	 The outside or external covering.
Foresight	 The act or the power of foreseeing
Foresight	 Action in reference to the future
Foresight	 Any sight or reading of the leveling staff, except the backsight; any sight or bearing taken by a compass or theodolite in a forward direction.
Foresight	 Muzzle sight. See Fore sight, under Fore, a.
Foresighted	 Sagacious
Foresightful	 Foresighted.
Foresignify	 To signify beforehand
Foreskin	 The fold of skin which covers the glans of the penis
Foreskirt	 The front skirt of a garment, in distinction from the train.
Foreslack	 See Forslack.
Foresleeve	 The sleeve below the elbow.
Foreslow	 To make slow; to hinder; to obstruct. [Obs.] See Forslow, v. t.
Foreslow	 To loiter. [Obs.] See Forslow, v. i.
Forespeak	 See Forspeak.
Forespeak	 To foretell
Forespeaking	 A prediction; also, a preface.
Forespeech	 A preface.
Forespent	 Already spent
Forespent	 See Forspent.
Forespurrer	 One who rides before
Forest	 An extensive wood; a large tract of land covered with trees; in the United States, a wood of native growth, or a tract of woodland which has never been cultivated.
Forest	 A large extent or precinct of country, generally waste and woody, belonging to the sovereign, set apart for the keeping of game for his use, not inclosed, but distinguished by certain limits, and protected by certain laws, courts, and officers of its own.
Forest	 Of or pertaining to a forest
Forest	 To cover with trees or wood.
Forestaff	 An instrument formerly used at sea for taking the altitudes of heavenly bodies, now superseded by the sextant; -- called also cross-staff.
Forestage	 A duty or tribute payable to the king's foresters.
Forestage	 A service paid by foresters to the king.
Forestal	 Of or pertaining to forests; as, forestal rights.
Forestalled	 of Forestall
Forestalling	 of Forestall
Forestall	 To take beforehand, or in advance; to anticipate.
Forestall	 To take possession of, in advance of some one or something else, to the exclusion or detriment of the latter; to get ahead of; to preoccupy; also, to exclude, hinder, or prevent, by prior occupation, or by measures taken in advance.
Forestall	 To deprive
Forestall	 To obstruct or stop up, as a way; to stop the passage of on highway; to intercept on the road, as goods on the way to market.
Forestaller	 One who forestalls; esp., one who forestalls the market.
Forestay	 A large, strong rope, reaching from the foremast head to the bowsprit, to support the mast. See Illust. under Ship.
Forester	 One who has charge of the growing timber on an estate
Forester	 An inhabitant of a forest.
Forester	 A forest tree.
Forester	 A lepidopterous insect belonging to Alypia and allied genera; as, the eight-spotted forester (A. octomaculata), which in the larval state is injurious to the grapevine.
Forestick	 Front stick of a hearth fire.
Forestry	 The art of forming or of cultivating forests
Foreswart	 Alt. of Foreswart
Foreswart	 See Forswat.
Foretaste	 A taste beforehand
Foretaste	 To taste before full possession
Foretaste	 To taste before another.
Foretaster	 One who tastes beforehand, or before another.
Foreteach	 To teach beforehand.
Foretold	 of Foretell
Foretelling	 of Foretell
Foretell	 To predict
Foretell	 To utter predictions.
Foreteller	 One who predicts.
Forethink	 To think beforehand
Forethink	 To contrive (something) beforehend.
Forethink	 To contrive beforehand.
Forethought	 Thought of, or planned, beforehand; aforethought; prepense; hence, deliberate.
Forethought	 A thinking or planning beforehand
Forethoughtful	 Having forethought.
Foretime	 The past
Foretoken	 Prognostic
Foretokened	 of Foretoken
Foretokening	 of Foretoken
Foretoken	 To foreshow
Fore	 teeth of Fore tooth
Fore	 tooth One of the teeth in the forepart of the mouth
Foretop	 The hair on the forepart of the head; esp., a tuft or lock of hair which hangs over the forehead, as of a horse.
Foretop	 That part of a headdress that is in front
Foretop	 The platform at the head of the foremast.
Fore-topgallant	 Designating the mast, sail, yard, etc., above the topmast; as, the fore-topgallant sail. See Sail.
Fore-topmast	 The mast erected at the head of the foremast, and at the head of which stands the fore-topgallant mast. See Ship.
Fore-topsail	 See Sail.
Forever	 Through eternity; through endless ages, eternally.
Forever	 At all times
Forevouched	 Formerly vouched or avowed
Foreward	 The van
Forewarned	 of Forewarn
Forewarning	 of Forewarn
Forewarn	 To warn beforehand; to give previous warning, admonition, information, or notice to; to caution in advance.
Forewaste	 See Forewaste.
Forewend	 To go before.
Forewish	 To wish beforehand.
Forewit	 A leader, or would-be leader, in matters of knowledge or taste.
Forewit	 Foresight
Forewot	 of Forewite
Forewost	 of Forewite
Forewiten	 of Forewite
Forewiste	 of Forewite
Forewisten	 of Forewite
Forewiting	 of Forewite
Forewite	 To foreknow.
Forewomen	 of Forewoman
Forewoman	 A woman who is chief
Foreword	 A preface.
Foreworn	 Worn out
Forewot	 pres. indic., 1st & 3d pers. sing. of Forewite.
Foreyard	 The lowermost yard on the foremast.
Forfalture	 Forfeiture.
Forfeit	 Injury
Forfeit	 A thing forfeit or forfeited; what is or may be taken from one in requital of a misdeed committed; that which is lost, or the right to which is alienated, by a crime, offense, neglect of duty, or breach of contract; hence, a fine; a mulct; a penalty; as, he who murders pays the forfeit of his life.
Forfeit	 Something deposited and redeemable by a sportive fine
Forfeit	 Lost or alienated for an offense or crime
Forfeited	 of Forfeit
Forfeiting	 of Forfeit
Forfeit	 To lose, or lose the right to, by some error, fault, offense, or crime; to render one's self by misdeed liable to be deprived of; to alienate the right to possess, by some neglect or crime; as, to forfeit an estate by treason; to forfeit reputation by a breach of promise; -- with to before the one acquiring what is forfeited.
Forfeit	 To be guilty of a misdeed
Forfeit	 To fail to keep an obligation.
Forfeit	 In the condition of being forfeited
Fourfeitable	 Liable to be forfeited
Forfeiter	 One who incurs a penalty of forfeiture.
Forfeiture	 The act of forfeiting; the loss of some right, privilege, estate, honor, office, or effects, by an offense, crime, breach of condition, or other act.
Forfeiture	 That which is forfeited
Forfend	 To prohibit
Forfered	 Excessively alarmed
Forfete	 To incur a penalty
Forfex	 A pair of shears.
Forficate	 Deeply forked, as the tail of certain birds.
Forficula	 A genus of insects including the earwigs. See Earwig, 1.
Forgather	 To convene
Forgave	 imp. of Forgive.
Forge	 A place or establishment where iron or other metals are wrought by heating and hammering; especially, a furnace, or a shop with its furnace, etc., where iron is heated and wrought; a smithy.
Forge	 The works where wrought iron is produced directly from the ore, or where iron is rendered malleable by puddling and shingling; a shingling mill.
Forge	 The act of beating or working iron or steel
Forged	 of Forge
Forging	 of Forge
Forge	 To form by heating and hammering; to beat into any particular shape, as a metal.
Forge	 To form or shape out in any way
Forge	 To coin.
Forge	 To make falsely; to produce, as that which is untrue or not genuine; to fabricate; to counterfeit, as, a signature, or a signed document.
Forge	 To commit forgery.
Forge	 To move heavily and slowly, as a ship after the sails are furled; to work one's way, as one ship in outsailing another; -- used especially in the phrase to forge ahead.
Forge	 To impel forward slowly; as, to forge a ship forward.
Forgemen	 of Forgeman
Forgeman	 A skilled smith, who has a hammerer to assist him.
Forger	 One who forges, makes, of forms; a fabricator; a falsifier.
Forger	 Especially: One guilty of forgery
Forgeries	 of Forgery
Forgery	 The act of forging metal into shape.
Forgery	 The act of forging, fabricating, or producing falsely; esp., the crime of fraudulently making or altering a writing or signature purporting to be made by another; the false making or material alteration of or addition to a written instrument for the purpose of deceit and fraud; as, the forgery of a bond.
Forgery	 That which is forged, fabricated, falsely devised, or counterfeited.
Forgot	 of Forget
Forgat	 of Forget
Forgotten	 of Forget
Forgot	 of Forget
Forgetting	 of Forget
Forget	 To lose the remembrance of; to let go from the memory; to cease to have in mind; not to think of; also, to lose the power of; to cease from doing.
Forget	 To treat with inattention or disregard
Forgetful	 Apt to forget; easily losing remembrance; as, a forgetful man should use helps to strengthen his memory.
Forgetful	 Heedless
Forgetful	 Causing to forget
Forgetfully	 In a forgetful manner.
Forgetfulness	 The quality of being forgetful
Forgetfulness	 Loss of remembrance or recollection
Forgetfulness	 Failure to bear in mind; careless omission; inattention; as, forgetfulness of duty.
Forgetive	 Inventive
Forget-me-not	 A small herb, of the genus Myosotis (M. palustris, incespitosa, etc.), bearing a beautiful blue flower, and extensively considered the emblem of fidelity.
Forgettable	 Liable to be, or that may be, forgotten.
Forgetter	 One who forgets
Forgettingly	 By forgetting.
Forging	 The act of shaping metal by hammering or pressing.
Forging	 The act of counterfeiting.
Forging	 A piece of forged work in metal
Forgivable	 Capable of being forgiven
Forgave	 of Forgive
Forgiven	 of Forgive
Forgiving	 of Forgive
Forgive	 To give wholly
Forgive	 To give up resentment or claim to requital on account of (an offense or wrong)
Forgive	 To cease to feel resentment against, on account of wrong committed; to give up claim to requital from or retribution upon (an offender); to absolve; to pardon; -- said of the person offending.
Forgiveness	 The act of forgiving; the state of being forgiven; as, the forgiveness of sin or of injuries.
Forgiveness	 Disposition to pardon
Forgiver	 One who forgives.
Forgiving	 Disposed to forgive; inclined to overlook offenses; mild; merciful; compassionate; placable; as, a forgiving temper.
Forwent	 of Forgo
Forgone	 of Forgo
Forgoing	 of Forgo
Forgo	 To pass by
Forgot	 imp. & p. p. of Forget.
Forgotten	 p. p. of Forget.
Forhall	 To harass
Forhend	 To seize upon.
Forinsecal	 Foreign
Forisfamiliated	 of Forisfamiliate
Forisfamiliating	 of Forisfamiliate
Forisfamiliate	 Literally, to put out of a family; hence, to portion off, so as to exclude further claim of inheritance; to emancipate (as a with his own consent) from paternal authority.
Forisfamiliate	 To renounce a legal title to a further share of paternal inheritance.
Forisfamiliation	 The act of forisfamiliating.
Fork	 An instrument consisting of a handle with a shank terminating in two or more prongs or tines, which are usually of metal, parallel and slightly curved; -- used from piercing, holding, taking up, or pitching anything.
Fork	 Anything furcate or like a fork in shape, or furcate at the extremity; as, a tuning fork.
Fork	 One of the parts into which anything is furcated or divided; a prong; a branch of a stream, a road, etc.; a barbed point, as of an arrow.
Fork	 The place where a division or a union occurs; the angle or opening between two branches or limbs; as, the fork of a river, a tree, or a road.
Fork	 The gibbet.
Forked	 of Fork
Forking	 of Fork
Fork	 To shoot into blades, as corn.
Fork	 To divide into two or more branches; as, a road, a tree, or a stream forks.
Fork	 To raise, or pitch with a fork, as hay; to dig or turn over with a fork, as the soil.
Forkbeard	 A European fish (Raniceps raninus), having a large flat head; -- also called tadpole fish, and lesser forked beard.
Forkbeard	 The European forked hake or hake's-dame (Phycis blennoides)
Forked	 Formed into a forklike shape; having a fork; dividing into two or more prongs or branches; furcated; bifurcated; zigzag; as, the forked lighting.
Forked	 Having a double meaning
Forkerve	 See Forcarve, v. t.
Forkiness	 The quality or state or dividing in a forklike manner.
Forkless	 Having no fork.
Forktail	 One of several Asiatic and East Indian passerine birds, belonging to Enucurus, and allied genera. The tail is deeply forking.
Forktail	 A salmon in its fourth year's growth.
Fork-tailed	 Having the outer tail feathers longer than the median ones
Forky	 Opening into two or more parts or shoots
Forlaft	 p. p. of Forleave.
Forlay	 To lie in wait for
Forleave	 To leave off wholly.
Forlend	 To give up wholly.
Forlore	 of Forlese
Forlorn	 of Forlese
Forlese	 To lose utterly.
Forlet	 To give up
Forlie	 See Forelie.
Forlore	 imp. pl. & p. p. of Forlese.
Forlorn	 Deserted
Forlorn	 Destitute
Forlorn	 A lost, forsaken, or solitary person.
Forlorn	 A forlorn hope
Forlornly	 In a forlorn manner.
Forlornness	 State of being forlorn.
Forlye	 Same as Forlie.
form	 A suffix used to denote in the form / shape of, resembling, etc.; as, valiform; oviform.
Form	 The shape and structure of anything, as distinguished from the material of which it is composed; particular disposition or arrangement of matter, giving it individuality or distinctive character; configuration; figure; external appearance.
Form	 Constitution; mode of construction, organization, etc.; system; as, a republican form of government.
Form	 Established method of expression or practice; fixed way of proceeding; conventional or stated scheme; formula; as, a form of prayer.
Form	 Show without substance; empty, outside appearance; vain, trivial, or conventional ceremony; conventionality; formality; as, a matter of mere form.
Form	 Orderly arrangement; shapeliness; also, comeliness; elegance; beauty.
Form	 A shape
Form	 That by which shape is given or determined
Form	 A long seat; a bench; hence, a rank of students in a school; a class; also, a class or rank in society.
Form	 The seat or bed of a hare.
Form	 The type or other matter from which an impression is to be taken, arranged and secured in a chase.
Form	 The boundary line of a material object. In painting, more generally, the human body.
Form	 The particular shape or structure of a word or part of speech; as, participial forms; verbal forms.
Form	 The combination of planes included under a general crystallographic symbol. It is not necessarily a closed solid.
Form	 That assemblage or disposition of qualities which makes a conception, or that internal constitution which makes an existing thing to be what it is; -- called essential or substantial form, and contradistinguished from matter; hence, active or formative nature; law of being or activity; subjectively viewed, an idea; objectively, a law.
Form	 Mode of acting or manifestation to the senses, or the intellect; as, water assumes the form of ice or snow. In modern usage, the elements of a conception furnished by the mind's own activity, as contrasted with its object or condition, which is called the matter; subjectively, a mode of apprehension or belief conceived as dependent on the constitution of the mind; objectively, universal and necessary accompaniments or elements of every object known or thought of.
Form	 The peculiar characteristics of an organism as a type of others; also, the structure of the parts of an animal or plant.
Formed	 of Form
Forming	 of Form
Form	 To give form or shape to
Form	 To give a particular shape to; to shape, mold, or fashion into a certain state or condition; to arrange; to adjust; also, to model by instruction and discipline; to mold by influence, etc.; to train.
Form	 To go to make up; to act as constituent of; to be the essential or constitutive elements of; to answer for; to make the shape of; -- said of that out of which anything is formed or constituted, in whole or in part.
Form	 To provide with a form, as a hare. See Form, n., 9.
Form	 To derive by grammatical rules, as by adding the proper suffixes and affixes.
Form	 To take a form, definite shape, or arrangement; as, the infantry should form in column.
Form	 To run to a form, as a hare.
Formal	 See Methylal.
Formal	 Belonging to the form, shape, frame, external appearance, or organization of a thing.
Formal	 Belonging to the constitution of a thing, as distinguished from the matter composing it; having the power of making a thing what it is; constituent; essential; pertaining to or depending on the forms, so called, of the human intellect.
Formal	 Done in due form, or with solemnity; according to regular method; not incidental, sudden or irregular; express; as, he gave his formal consent.
Formal	 Devoted to, or done in accordance with, forms or rules; punctilious; regular; orderly; methodical; of a prescribed form; exact; prim; stiff; ceremonious; as, a man formal in his dress, his gait, his conversation.
Formal	 Having the form or appearance without the substance or essence; external; as, formal duty; formal worship; formal courtesy, etc.
Formal	 Dependent in form
Formal	 Sound
Formaldehyde	 A colorless, volatile liquid, H2CO, resembling acetic or ethyl aldehyde, and chemically intermediate between methyl alcohol and formic acid.
Formalism	 The practice or the doctrine of strict adherence to, or dependence on, external forms, esp. in matters of religion.
Formalist	 One overattentive to forms, or too much confined to them; esp., one who rests in external religious forms, or observes strictly the outward forms of worship, without possessing the life and spirit of religion.
Formalities	 of Formality
Formality	 The condition or quality of being formal, strictly ceremonious, precise, etc.
Formality	 Form without substance.
Formality	 Compliance with formal or conventional rules
Formality	 An established order
Formality	 The dress prescribed for any body of men, academical, municipal, or sacerdotal.
Formality	 That which is formal
Formality	 The quality which makes a thing what it is
Formality	 The manner in which a thing is conceived or constituted by an act of human thinking; the result of such an act; as, animality and rationality are formalities.
Formalized	 of Formalize
Formalizing	 of Formalize
Formalize	 To give form, or a certain form, to; to model.
Formalize	 To render formal.
Formalize	 To affect formality.
Formally	 In a formal manner
Formate	 A salt of formic acid.
Formation	 The act of giving form or shape to anything
Formation	 The manner in which a thing is formed; structure; construction; conformation; form; as, the peculiar formation of the heart.
Formation	 A substance formed or deposited.
Formation	 Mineral deposits and rock masses designated with reference to their origin; as, the siliceous formation about geysers; alluvial formations; marine formations.
Formation	 A group of beds of the same age or period; as, the Eocene formation.
Formation	 The arrangement of a body of troops, as in a square, column, etc.
Formative	 Giving form; having the power of giving form; plastic; as, the formative arts.
Formative	 Serving to form; derivative; not radical; as, a termination merely formative.
Formative	 Capable of growth and development; germinal; as, living or formative matter.
Formative	 That which serves merely to give form, and is no part of the radical, as the prefix or the termination of a word.
Formative	 A word formed in accordance with some rule or usage, as from a root.
Forme	 Same as Pate or Patte.
Forme	 First.
Formed	 Arranged, as stars in a constellation; as, formed stars.
Formed	 Having structure; capable of growth and development; organized; as, the formed or organized ferments. See Ferment, n.
Formedon	 A writ of right for a tenant in tail in case of a discontinuance of the estate tail. This writ has been abolished.
Formell	 The female of a hawk or falcon.
Former	 One who forms
Former	 A shape around which an article is to be shaped, molded, woven wrapped, pasted, or otherwise constructed.
Former	 A templet, pattern, or gauge by which an article is shaped.
Former	 A cutting die.
Former	 Preceding in order of time; antecedent; previous; prior; earlier; hence, ancient; long past.
Former	 Near the beginning; preceeding; as, the former part of a discourse or argument.
Former	 Earlier, as between two things mentioned together; first mentioned.
Formeret	 One of the half ribs against the walls in a ceiling vaulted with ribs.
Formerly	 In time past, either in time immediately preceding or at any indefinite distance; of old; heretofore.
Formful	 Creative
Formic	 Pertaining to, or derived from, ants; as, formic acid; in an extended sense, pertaining to, or derived from, formic acid; as, formic ether.
Formica	 A Linnaean genus of hymenopterous insects, including the common ants. See Ant.
Formicaroid	 Like or pertaining to the family Formicaridae or ant thrushes.
Formicary	 The nest or dwelling of a swarm of ants
Formicate	 Resembling, or pertaining to, an ant or ants.
Formication	 A sensation resembling that made by the creeping of ants on the skin.
Formicid	 Pertaining to the ants.
Formicid	 One of the family Formicidae, or ants.
Formidability	 Formidableness.
Formidable	 Exciting fear or apprehension; impressing dread; adapted to excite fear and deter from approach, encounter, or undertaking; alarming.
Formidableness	 The quality of being formidable, or adapted to excite dread.
Formidably	 In a formidable manner.
Formidolose	 Very much afraid.
Forming	 The act or process of giving form or shape to anything; as, in shipbuilding, the exact shaping of partially shaped timbers.
Formless	 Shapeless
Formulas	 of Formula
Formulae	 of Formula
Formula	 A prescribed or set form; an established rule; a fixed or conventional method in which anything is to be done, arranged, or said.
Formula	 A written confession of faith
Formula	 A rule or principle expressed in algebraic language; as, the binominal formula.
Formula	 A prescription or recipe for the preparation of a medicinal compound.
Formula	 A symbolic expression (by means of letters, figures, etc.) of the constituents or constitution of a compound.
Formularistic	 Pertaining to, or exhibiting, formularization.
Formularization	 The act of formularizing
Formularize	 To reduce to a forula
Formulary	 Stated
Formularies	 of Formulary
Formulary	 A book containing stated and prescribed forms, as of oaths, declarations, prayers, medical formulaae, etc.; a book of precedents.
Formulary	 Prescribed form or model
Formulated	 of Formulate
Formulating	 of Formulate
Formulate	 To reduce to, or express in, a formula; to put in a clear and definite form of statement or expression.
Formulation	 The act, process, or result of formulating or reducing to a formula.
Formule	 A set or prescribed model
Formulization	 The act or process of reducing to a formula
Formulized	 of Formulize
Formulizing	 of Formulize
Formulize	 To reduce to a formula
Formyl	 A univalent radical, H.C:O, regarded as the essential residue of formic acid and aldehyde.
Formyl	 Formerly, the radical methyl, CH3.
Forncast	 Predestined.
Fornical	 Relating to a fornix.
Fornicate	 Alt. of Fornicated
Fornicated	 Vaulted like an oven or furnace
Fornicated	 Arching over
Fornicate	 To commit fornication
Fornication	 Unlawful sexual intercourse on the part of an unmarried person
Fornication	 Adultery.
Fornication	 Incest.
Fornication	 Idolatry.
Fornicator	 An unmarried person, male or female, who has criminal intercourse with the other sex; one guilty of fornication.
Fornicatress	 A woman guilty of fornication.
Fornices	 of Fornix
Fornix	 An arch or fold; as, the fornix, or vault, of the cranium; the fornix, or reflection, of the conjuctiva.
Fornix	 Esp., two longitudinal bands of white nervous tissue beneath the lateral ventricles of the brain.
Forold	 Very old.
Forpass	 To pass by or along
Forpine	 To waste away completely by suffering or torment.
Forray	 To foray
Forray	 The act of ravaging
Forrill	 Lambskin parchment
Forsook	 of Forsake
Forsaken	 of Forsake
Forsaking	 of Forsake
Forsake	 To quit or leave entirely; to desert; to abandon; to depart or withdraw from; to leave; as, false friends and flatterers forsake us in adversity.
Forsake	 To renounce
Forsaker	 One who forsakes or deserts.
Forsay	 To forbid
Forshape	 To render misshapen.
Forslack	 To neglect by idleness
Forslouthe	 To lose by sloth or negligence.
Forslow	 To delay
Forslow	 To loiter.
Forslugge	 To lsoe by idleness or slotch.
Forsooth	 In truth; in fact; certainly; very well; -- formerly used as an expression of deference or respect, especially to woman; now used ironically or contemptuously.
Forsooth	 To address respectfully with the term forsooth.
Forsooth	 A person who used forsooth much
Forspeak	 To forbid
Forspeak	 To bewitch.
Forspent	 Wasted in strength
Forstall	 To forestall.
Forster	 A forester.
Forstraught	 Distracted.
Forswat	 Spent with heat
Forswore	 of Forswear
Forsworn	 of Forswear
Forswearing	 of Forswear
Forswear	 To reject or renounce upon oath; hence, to renounce earnestly, determinedly, or with protestations.
Forswear	 To deny upon oath.
Forswear	 To swear falsely
Forswearer	 One who rejects of renounces upon oath
Forswonk	 Overlabored
Forswore	 imp. of Forswear.
Forsworn	 p. p. of Forswear.
Forswornness	 State of being forsworn.
Forsythia	 A shrub of the Olive family, with yellow blossoms.
Fort	 A strong or fortified place; usually, a small fortified place, occupied only by troops, surrounded with a ditch, rampart, and parapet, or with palisades, stockades, or other means of defense; a fortification.
Fortalice	 A small outwork of a fortification
Forte	 The strong point
Forte	 The stronger part of the blade of a sword
Forte	 Loudly
Forted	 Furnished with, or guarded by, forts; strengthened or defended, as by forts.
Forth	 Forward; onward in time, place, or order; in advance from a given point; on to end; as, from that day forth; one, two, three, and so forth.
Forth	 Out, as from a state of concealment, retirement, confinement, nondevelopment, or the like; out into notice or view; as, the plants in spring put forth leaves.
Forth	 Beyond a (certain) boundary
Forth	 Throughly
Forth	 Forth from
Forth	 A way
Forthby	 See Forby.
Forthcoming	 Ready or about to appear
Forthgoing	 A going forth
Forthgoing	 Going forth.
Forthink	 To repent
Forthputing	 Bold
Forthright	 Straight forward
Forthright	 Direct; straightforward; as, a forthright man.
Forthright	 A straight path.
Forthrightness	 Straightforwardness
Forthward	 Forward.
Forthwith	 Immediately
Forthwith	 As soon as the thing required may be done by reasonable exertion confined to that object.
Forthy	 Therefore.
Forties	 See Forty.
Fortieth	 Following the thirty-ninth, or preceded by thirty-nine units, things, or parts.
Fortieth	 Constituting one of forty equal parts into which anything is divided.
Fortieth	 One of forty equal parts into which one whole is divided
Fortifiable	 Capable of being fortified.
Fortification	 The act of fortifying
Fortification	 That which fortifies; especially, a work or works erected to defend a place against attack; a fortified place; a fortress; a fort; a castle.
Fortifier	 One who, or that which, fortifies, strengthens, supports, or upholds.
Fortified	 of Fortify
Fortifying	 of Fortify
Fortify	 To add strength to
Fortify	 To strengthen and secure by forts or batteries, or by surrounding with a wall or ditch or other military works; to render defensible against an attack by hostile forces.
Fortify	 To raise defensive works.
Fortilage	 A little fort
Fortin	 A little fort
Fortissimo	 Very loud
Fortition	 Casual choice
Fortitude	 Power to resist attack
Fortitude	 That strength or firmness of mind which enables a person to encounter danger with coolness and courage, or to bear pain or adversity without murmuring, depression, or despondency; passive courage; resolute endurance; firmness in confronting or bearing up against danger or enduring trouble.
Fortitudinous	 Having fortitude
Fortlet	 A little fort.
Fortnight	 The space of fourteen days
Fortnightly	 Occurring or appearing once in a fortnight; as, a fortnightly meeting of a club; a fortnightly magazine, or other publication.
Fortnightly	 Once in a fortnight
Fortread	 To tread down
Fortresses	 of Fortress
Fortress	 A fortified place; a large and permanent fortification, sometimes including a town; a fort; a castle; a stronghold; a place of defense or security.
Fortress	 To furnish with a fortress or with fortresses
Fortuitous	 Happening by chance; coming or occuring unexpectedly, or without any known cause; chance; as, the fortuitous concourse of atoms.
Fortuitous	 Happening independently of human will or means of foresight
Fortuity	 Accident
Fortunate	 Coming by good luck or favorable chance; bringing some good thing not foreseen as certain; presaging happiness; auspicious; as, a fortunate event; a fortunate concurrence of circumstances; a fortunate investment.
Fortunate	 Receiving same unforeseen or unexpected good, or some good which was not dependent on one's own skill or efforts; favored with good forune; lucky.
Fortunately	 In a fortunate manner
Fortunateness	 The condition or quality of being fortunate
Fortune	 The arrival of something in a sudden or unexpected manner; chance; accident; luck; hap; also, the personified or deified power regarded as determining human success, apportioning happiness and unhappiness, and distributing arbitrarily or fortuitously the lots of life.
Fortune	 That which befalls or is to befall one; lot in life, or event in any particular undertaking; fate; destiny; as, to tell one's fortune.
Fortune	 That which comes as the result of an undertaking or of a course of action; good or ill success; especially, favorable issue; happy event; success; prosperity as reached partly by chance and partly by effort.
Fortune	 Wealth; large possessions; large estate; riches; as, a gentleman of fortune.
Fortune	 To make fortunate
Fortune	 To provide with a fortune.
Fortune	 To presage
Fortune	 To fall out
Fortuneless	 Luckless; also, destitute of a fortune or portion.
Fortunize	 To regulate the fortune of
Forty	 Four times ten
Forties	 of Forty
Forty	 The sum of four tens
Forty	 A symbol expressing forty units; as, 40, or xl.
Forty-spot	 The Tasmanian forty-spotted diamond bird (Pardalotus quadragintus).
Forums	 of Forum
Fora	 of Forum
Forum	 A market place or public place in Rome, where causes were judicially tried, and orations delivered to the people.
Forum	 A tribunal
Forwaked	 Tired out with excessive waking or watching.
Forwander	 To wander away
Forward	 An agreement
Forward	 Alt. of Forwards
Forwards	 Toward a part or place before or in front
Forward	 Near, or at the fore part; in advance of something else; as, the forward gun in a ship, or the forward ship in a fleet.
Forward	 Ready; prompt; strongly inclined; in an ill sense, overready; to hasty.
Forward	 Ardent; eager; earnest; in an ill sense, less reserved or modest than is proper; bold; confident; as, the boy is too forward for his years.
Forward	 Advanced beyond the usual degree; advanced for season; as, the grass is forward, or forward for the season; we have a forward spring.
Forwarded	 of Forward
Forwarding	 of Forward
Forward	 To help onward; to advance; to promote; to accelerate; to quicken; to hasten; as, to forward the growth of a plant; to forward one in improvement.
Forward	 To send forward; to send toward the place of destination; to transmit; as, to forward a letter.
Forwarder	 One who forwards or promotes
Forwarder	 One who sends forward anything
Forwarder	 One employed in forwarding.
Forwarding	 The act of one who forwards
Forwarding	 The process of putting a book into its cover, and making it ready for the finisher.
Forwardly	 Eagerly
Forwardness	 The quality of being forward; cheerful readiness; promtness; as, the forwardness of Christians in propagating the gospel.
Forwardness	 An advanced stage of progress or of preparation; advancement; as, his measures were in great forwardness.
Forwardness	 Eagerness; ardor; as, it is difficult to restrain the forwardness of youth.
Forwardness	 Boldness
Forwardness	 A state of advance beyond the usual degree; prematureness; precocity; as, the forwardnessof spring or of corn; the forwardness of a pupil.
Forwards	 Same as Forward.
Forwaste	 To desolate or lay waste utterly.
Forwweary	 To weary extremely
Forweep	 To weep much.
Forwete	 See Forewite.
Forwhy	 Wherefore
Forworn	 Much worn.
Forwot	 pres. indic. 1st & 3d pers. sing. of Forwete.
Forwrap	 To wrap up
Foryelde	 To repay
Foryete	 To forget.
Foryetten	 p. p. of Foryete.
Forzando	 See Sforzato.
FossAe	 of Fossa
Fossa	 A pit, groove, cavity, or depression, of greater or less depth; as, the temporal fossa on the side of the skull; the nasal fossae containing the nostrils in most birds.
Fossane	 A species of civet (Viverra fossa) resembling the genet.
Fosse	 A ditch or moat.
Fosse	 See Fossa.
Fosset	 A faucet.
Fossette	 A little hollow; hence, a dimple.
Fossette	 A small, deep-centered ulcer of the transparent cornea.
Fosseway	 One of the great military roads constructed by the Romans in England and other parts of Europe
Fossil	 Dug out of the earth; as, fossil coal; fossil salt.
Fossil	 Like or pertaining to fossils; contained in rocks, whether petrified or not; as, fossil plants, shells.
Fossil	 A substance dug from the earth.
Fossil	 The remains of an animal or plant found in stratified rocks. Most fossils belong to extinct species, but many of the later ones belong to species still living.
Fossil	 A person whose views and opinions are extremely antiquated
Fossiliferous	 Containing or composed of fossils.
Fossilification	 The process of becoming fossil.
Fossilism	 The science or state of fossils.
Fossilism	 The state of being extremely antiquated in views and opinions.
Fossilist	 One who is versed in the science of fossils
Fossilization	 The process of converting, or of being converted, into a fossil.
Fossilized	 of Fossilize
Fossilizing	 of Fossilize
Fossilize	 To convert into a fossil; to petrify; as, to fossilize bones or wood.
Fossilize	 To cause to become antiquated, rigid, or fixed, as by fossilization; to mummify; to deaden.
Fossilize	 To become fossil.
Fossilize	 To become antiquated, rigid, or fixed, beyond the influence of change or progress.
Fossilized	 Converted into a fossil
Fossores	 A group of hymenopterous insects including the sand wasps. They excavate cells in earth, where they deposit their eggs, with the bodies of other insects for the food of the young when hatched.
Fossoria	 See Fossores.
Fossorial	 Fitted for digging, adapted for burrowing or digging; as, a fossorial foot; a fossorial animal.
Fossorious	 Adapted for digging
Fossulate	 Having, or surrounded by, long, narrow depressions or furrows.
Fostered	 of Foster
Fostering	 of Foster
Foster	 To feed
Foster	 To cherish; to promote the growth of; to encourage; to sustain and promote; as, to foster genius.
Foster	 To be nourished or trained up together.
Foster	 Relating to nourishment; affording, receiving, or sharing nourishment or nurture; -- applied to father, mother, child, brother, etc., to indicate that the person so called stands in the relation of parent, child, brother, etc., as regards sustenance and nurture, but not by tie of blood.
Foster	 A forester.
Fosterage	 The care of a foster child
Foster	 One who, or that which, fosters.
Fosterling	 A foster child.
Fosterment	 Food
Fostress	 A woman who feeds and cherishes
Fother	 A wagonload
Fother	 See Fodder, a unit of weight.
Fothered	 of Fother
Fothering	 of Fother
Fother	 To stop (a leak in a ship at sea) by drawing under its bottom a thrummed sail, so that the pressure of the water may force it into the crack.
Fotive	 Nourishing.
Fotmal	 Seventy pounds of lead.
Fougade	 Alt. of Fougasse
Fougasse	 A small mine, in the form of a well sunk from the surface of the ground, charged with explosive and projectiles. It is made in a position likely to be occupied by the enemy.
Fought	 imp. & p. p. of Fight.
Foughten	 p. p. of Fight.
Foul	 A bird.
Foul	 Covered with, or containing, extraneous matter which is injurious, noxious, offensive, or obstructive; filthy; dirty; not clean; polluted; nasty; defiled; as, a foul cloth; foul hands; a foul chimney; foul air; a ship's bottom is foul when overgrown with barnacles; a gun becomes foul from repeated firing; a well is foul with polluted water.
Foul	 Scurrilous; obscene or profane; abusive; as, foul words; foul language.
Foul	 Hateful
Foul	 Loathsome; disgusting; as, a foul disease.
Foul	 Ugly
Foul	 Not favorable; unpropitious; not fair or advantageous; as, a foul wind; a foul road; cloudy or rainy; stormy; not fair; -- said of the weather, sky, etc.
Foul	 Not conformed to the established rules and customs of a game, conflict, test, etc.; unfair; dishonest; dishonorable; cheating; as, foul play.
Foul	 Having freedom of motion interfered with by collision or entanglement; entangled; -- opposed to clear; as, a rope or cable may get foul while paying it out.
Fouled	 of Foul
Fouling	 of Foul
Foul	 To make filthy; to defile; to daub; to dirty; to soil; as, to foul the face or hands with mire.
Foul	 To incrust (the bore of a gun) with burnt powder in the process of firing.
Foul	 To cover (a ship's bottom) with anything that impered its sailing; as, a bottom fouled with barnacles.
Foul	 To entangle, so as to impede motion; as, to foul a rope or cable in paying it out; to come into collision with; as, one boat fouled the other in a race.
Foul	 To become clogged with burnt powder in the process of firing, as a gun.
Foul	 To become entagled, as ropes; to come into collision with something; as, the two boats fouled.
Foul	 An entanglement; a collision, as in a boat race.
Foul	 See Foul ball, under Foul, a.
Foulard	 A thin, washable material of silk, or silk and cotton, originally imported from India, but now also made elsewhere.
Foulder	 To flash, as lightning; to lighten; to gleam; to thunder.
Foule	 Foully.
Foully	 In a foul manner
Foul-mouthed	 Using language scurrilous, opprobrious, obscene, or profane; abusive.
Foulness	 The quality or condition of being foul.
Foul-spoken	 Using profane, scurrilous, slanderous, or obscene language.
Foumart	 The European polecat; -- called also European ferret, and fitchew. See Polecat.
Found	 imp. & p. p. of Find.
Founded	 of Found
Founding	 of Found
Found	 To form by melting a metal, and pouring it into a mold; to cast.
Found	 A thin, single-cut file for combmakers.
Founded	 of Found
Founding	 of Found
Found	 To lay the basis of; to set, or place, as on something solid, for support; to ground; to establish upon a basis, literal or figurative; to fix firmly.
Found	 To take the ffirst steps or measures in erecting or building up; to furnish the materials for beginning; to begin to raise; to originate; as, to found a college; to found a family.
Foundation	 The act of founding, fixing, establishing, or beginning to erect.
Foundation	 That upon which anything is founded; that on which anything stands, and by which it is supported; the lowest and supporting layer of a superstructure; groundwork; basis.
Foundation	 The lowest and supporting part or member of a wall, including the base course (see Base course (a), under Base, n.) and footing courses; in a frame house, the whole substructure of masonry.
Foundation	 A donation or legacy appropriated to support a charitable institution, and constituting a permanent fund; endowment.
Foundation	 That which is founded, or established by endowment; an endowed institution or charity.
Foundationer	 One who derives support from the funds or foundation of a college or school.
Foundationless	 Having no foundation.
Founder	 One who founds, establishes, and erects; one who lays a foundation; an author; one from whom anything originates; one who endows.
Founder	 One who founds; one who casts metals in various forms; a caster; as, a founder of cannon, bells, hardware, or types.
Foundered	 of Founder
Foundering	 of Founder
Founder	 To become filled with water, and sink, as a ship.
Founder	 To fall; to stumble and go lame, as a horse.
Founder	 To fail
Founder	 To cause internal inflammation and soreness in the feet or limbs of (a horse), so as to disable or lame him.
Founder	 A lameness in the foot of a horse, occasioned by inflammation; closh.
Founder	 An inflammatory fever of the body, or acute rheumatism; as, chest founder. See Chest ffounder.
Founderous	 Difficult to travel; likely to trip one up; as, a founderous road.
Foundershaft	 The first shaft sunk.
Founderies	 of Foundery
Foundery	 Same as Foundry.
Founding	 The art of smelting and casting metals.
Foundling	 A deserted or exposed infant
Foundress	 A female founder; a woman who founds or establishes, or who endows with a fund.
Foundries	 of Foundry
Foundry	 The act, process, or art of casting metals.
Foundry	 The buildings and works for casting metals.
Fount	 A font.
Fount	 A fountain.
Fountain	 A spring of water issuing from the earth.
Fountain	 An artificially produced jet or stream of water; also, the structure or works in which such a jet or stream rises or flows; a basin built and constantly supplied with pure water for drinking and other useful purposes, or for ornament.
Fountain	 A reservoir or chamber to contain a liquid which can be conducted or drawn off as needed for use; as, the ink fountain in a printing press, etc.
Fountain	 The source from which anything proceeds, or from which anything is supplied continuously; origin; source.
Fountainless	 Having no fountain
Fountful	 Full of fountains.
Four	 One more than three
Four	 The sum of four units
Four	 A symbol representing four units, as 4 or iv.
Four	 Four things of the same kind, esp. four horses; as, a chariot and four.
Fourb	 Alt. of Fourbe
Fourbe	 A trickly fellow
Fourche	 Having the ends forked or branched, and the ends of the branches terminating abruptly as if cut off; -- said of an ordinary, especially of a cross.
Fourchette	 A table fork.
Fourchette	 A small fold of membrane, connecting the labia in the posterior part of the vulva.
Fourchette	 The wishbone or furculum of birds.
Fourchette	 The frog of the hoof of the horse and allied animals.
Fourchette	 An instrument used to raise and support the tongue during the cutting of the fraenum.
Fourchette	 The forked piece between two adjacent fingers, to which the front and back portions are sewed.
Four-cornered	 Having four corners or angles.
Fourdrinier	 A machine used in making paper
Fourfold	 Four times; quadruple; as, a fourfold division.
Fourfold	 Four times as many or as much.
Fourfold	 To make four times as much or as many, as an assessment,; to quadruple.
Fourfooted	 Having four feet; quadruped; as, fourfooted beasts.
Fourgon	 An ammunition wagon.
Fourgon	 A French baggage wagon.
Fourhanded	 Having four hands
Fourhanded	 Requiring four "hands" or players; as, a fourhanded game at cards.
Fourierism	 The cooperative socialistic system of Charles Fourier, a Frenchman, who recommended the reorganization of society into small communities, living in common.
Fourierist	 Alt. of Fourierite
Fourierite	 One who adopts the views of Fourier.
Four-in-hand	 Consisting of four horses controlled by one person; as, a four-in-hand team; drawn by four horses driven by one person; as, a four-in-hand coach.
Four-in-hand	 A team of four horses driven by one person; also, a vehicle drawn by such a team.
Fourling	 One of four children born at the same time.
Fourling	 A compound or twin crystal consisting of four individuals.
Fourneau	 The chamber of a mine in which the powder is placed.
Four-o'clock	 A plant of the genus Mirabilis. There are about half a dozen species, natives of the warmer parts of America. The common four-o'clock is M. Jalapa. Its flowers are white, yellow, and red, and open toward sunset, or earlier in cloudy weather; hence the name. It is also called marvel of Peru, and afternoon lady.
Four-o'clock	 The friar bird; -- so called from its cry, which resembles these words.
Fourpence	 A British silver coin, worth four pence; a groat.
Fourpence	 A name formerly given in New England to the Spanish half real, a silver coin worth six and a quarter cents.
Four-poster	 A large bedstead with tall posts at the corners to support curtains.
Fourrier	 A harbinger.
Fourscore	 Four times twenty
Fourscore	 The product of four times twenty
Foursquare	 Having four sides and four equal angles.
Fourteen	 Four and ten more
Fourteen	 The sum of ten and four
Fourteen	 A symbol representing fourteen, as 14 or xiv.
Fourteenth	 Next in order after the thirteenth; as, the fourteenth day of the month.
Fourteenth	 Making or constituting one of fourteen equal parts into which anything may be derived.
Fourteenth	 One of fourteen equal parts into which one whole may be divided
Fourteenth	 The octave of the seventh.
Fourth	 Next in order after the third
Fourth	 Forming one of four equal parts into which anything may be divided.
Fourth	 One of four equal parts into which one whole may be divided
Fourth	 The interval of two tones and a semitone, embracing four diatonic degrees of the scale; the subdominant of any key.
Fourthly	 In the fourth place.
Four-way	 Allowing passage in either of four directions; as, a four-way cock, or valve.
Four-wheeled	 Having four wheels.
Four-wheeler	 A vehicle having four wheels.
Foussa	 A viverrine animal of Madagascar (Cryptoprocta ferox). It resembles a cat in size and form, and has retractile claws.
Fouter	 A despicable fellow.
Foutra	 A fig
Fouty	 Despicable.
Foveae	 of Fovea
Fovea	 A slight depression or pit
Foveate	 Having pits or depressions
Foveolae	 of Foveola
Foveola	 A small depression or pit
Foveolate	 Having small pits or depression, as the receptacle in some composite flowers.
Foveolated	 Foveolate.
Fovillae	 of Fovilla
Fovilla	 One of the fine granules contained in the protoplasm of a pollen grain.
Fowls	 of Fowl
Fowl	 Any bird; esp., any large edible bird.
Fowl	 Any domesticated bird used as food, as a hen, turkey, duck; in a more restricted sense, the common domestic cock or hen (Gallus domesticus).
Fowled	 of Fowl
Fowling	 of Fowl
Fowl	 To catch or kill wild fowl, for game or food, as by shooting, or by decoys, nets, etc.
Fowler	 A sportsman who pursues wild fowl, or takes or kills for food.
Fowlerite	 A variety of rhodonite, from Franklin Furnace, New Jersey, containing some zinc.
Fowler's	 solution An aqueous solution of arsenite of potassium, of such strength that one hundred parts represent one part of arsenious acid, or white arsenic; -- named from Fowler, an English physician who first brought it into use.
Foxes	 of Fox
Fox	 A carnivorous animal of the genus Vulpes, family Canidae, of many species. The European fox (V. vulgaris or V. vulpes), the American red fox (V. fulvus), the American gray fox (V. Virginianus), and the arctic, white, or blue, fox (V. lagopus) are well-known species.
Fox	 The European dragonet.
Fox	 The fox shark or thrasher shark; -- called also sea fox. See Thrasher shark, under Shark.
Fox	 A sly, cunning fellow.
Fox	 Rope yarn twisted together, and rubbed with tar; -- used for seizings or mats.
Fox	 A sword; -- so called from the stamp of a fox on the blade, or perhaps of a wolf taken for a fox.
Fox	 A tribe of Indians which, with the Sacs, formerly occupied the region about Green Bay, Wisconsin; -- called also Outagamies.
Foxed	 of Fox
Foxing	 of Fox
Fox	 To intoxicate
Fox	 To make sour, as beer, by causing it to ferment.
Fox	 To repair the feet of, as of boots, with new front upper leather, or to piece the upper fronts of.
Fox	 To turn sour; -- said of beer, etc., when it sours in fermenting.
Foxearth	 A hole in the earth to which a fox resorts to hide himself.
Fracas	 An uproar
Fracho	 A shallow iron pan to hold glass ware while being annealed.
Fracid	 Rotten from being too ripe
Fract	 To break
Fracted	 Having a part displaced, as if broken; -- said of an ordinary.
Foxed	 Discolored or stained; -- said of timber, and also of the paper of books or engravings.
Foxed	 Repaired by foxing; as, foxed boots.
Foxery	 Behavior like that of a fox
Foxes	 See Fox, n., 7.
Foxfish	 The fox shark; -- called also sea fox. See Thrasher shark, under Shark.
Foxfish	 The european dragonet. See Dragonet.
Foxglove	 Any plant of the genus Digitalis. The common English foxglove (Digitalis purpurea) is a handsome perennial or biennial plant, whose leaves are used as a powerful medicine, both as a sedative and diuretic. See Digitalis.
Foxhound	 One of a special breed of hounds used for chasing foxes.
Fox-hunting	 Pertaining to or engaged in the hunting of foxes
Foxiness	 The state or quality of being foxy, or foxlike; craftiness; shrewdness.
Foxiness	 The state of being foxed or discolored, as books; decay; deterioration.
Foxiness	 A coarse and sour taste in grapes.
Foxish	 Foxlike.
Foxlike	 Resembling a fox in his characteristic qualities
Foxly	 Foxlike.
Foxship	 Foxiness
Foxtail	 The tail or brush of a fox.
Foxtail	 The name of several kinds of grass having a soft dense head of flowers, mostly the species of Alopecurus and Setaria.
Foxtail	 The last cinders obtained in the fining process.
Foxy	 Like or pertaining to the fox
Foxy	 Having the color of a fox
Foxy	 Having the odor of a fox
Foxy	 Sour; unpleasant in taste; -- said of wine, beer, etc., not properly fermented; -- also of grapes which have the coarse flavor of the fox grape.
Foy	 Faith
Foy	 A feast given by one about to leave a place.
Foyer	 A lobby in a theater
Foyer	 The crucible or basin in a furnace which receives the molten metal.
Foyson	 See Foison.
Foziness	 The state of being fozy
Fozy	 Spongy
Fra	 Fro.
Fra	 Brother; -- a title of a monk of friar; as, Fra Angelo.
Frab	 To scold
Frabbit	 Crabbed
Fraction	 The act of breaking, or state of being broken, especially by violence.
Fraction	 A portion
Fraction	 One or more aliquot parts of a unit or whole number
Fraction	 To separate by means of, or to subject to, fractional distillation or crystallization; to fractionate; -- frequently used with out; as, to fraction out a certain grade of oil from pretroleum.
Fractional	 Of or pertaining to fractions or a fraction; constituting a fraction; as, fractional numbers.
Fractional	 Relatively small; inconsiderable; insignificant; as, a fractional part of the population.
Fractionally	 By fractions or separate portions; as, to distill a liquid fractionally, that is, so as to separate different portions.
Fractionary	 Fractional.
Fractionate	 To separate into different portions or fractions, as in the distillation of liquids.
Fractious	 Apt to break out into a passion; apt to scold; cross; snappish; ugly; unruly; as, a fractious man; a fractious horse.
Fractural	 Pertaining to, or consequent on, a fracture.
Fracture	 The act of breaking or snapping asunder
Fracture	 The breaking of a bone.
Fracture	 The texture of a freshly broken surface; as, a compact fracture; an even, hackly, or conchoidal fracture.
Fractured	 of Fracture
Fracturing	 of Fracture
Fracture	 To cause a fracture or fractures in; to break; to burst asunder; to crack; to separate the continuous parts of; as, to fracture a bone; to fracture the skull.
Fraenula	 of Fraenulum
Fraenulum	 A fraenum.
Fraenums	 of Frenum
Fraena	 of Frenum
Fraenum	 Alt. of Frenum
Frenum	 A connecting fold of membrane serving to support or restrain any part; as, the fraenum of the tongue.
Fragile	 Easily broken
Fragility	 The condition or quality of being fragile
Fragility	 Weakness
Fragility	 Liability to error and sin
Fragment	 A part broken off; a small, detached portion; an imperfect part; as, a fragment of an ancient writing.
Fragmentak	 Fragmentary.
Fragmentak	 Consisting of the pulverized or fragmentary material of rock, as conglomerate, shale, etc.
Fragmental	 A fragmentary rock.
Fragmentarily	 In a fragmentary manner
Fragmentariness	 The quality or property of being in fragnebts, or broken pieces, incompleteness; want of continuity.
Fragmentary	 Composed of fragments, or broken pieces; disconnected; not complete or entire.
Fragmentary	 Composed of the fragments of other rocks.
Fragmented	 Broken into fragments.
Fragmentist	 A writer of fragments; as, the fragmentist of Wolfenbuttel.
Fragor	 A loud and sudden sound
Fragor	 A strong or sweet scent.
Fragrance	 Alt. of Fragrancy
Fragrancy	 The quality of being fragrant
Fragrant	 Affecting the olfactory nerves agreeably
Fraight	 Same as Fraught.
Frail	 A basket made of rushes, used chiefly for containing figs and raisins.
Frail	 The quantity of raisins -- about thirty-two, fifty-six, or seventy-five pounds, -- contained in a frail.
Frail	 A rush for weaving baskets.
Frail	 Easily broken
Frail	 Tender.
Frail	 Liable to fall from virtue or be led into sin; not strong against temptation; weak in resolution; also, unchaste; -- often applied to fallen women.
Frailly	 Weakly
Frailness	 Frailty.
Frailties	 of Frailty
Frailty	 The condition quality of being frail, physically, mentally, or morally, frailness; infirmity; weakness of resolution; liableness to be deceived or seduced.
Frailty	 A fault proceeding from weakness
Fraischeur	 Freshness
Fraise	 A large and thick pancake, with slices of bacon in it.
Fraise	 A defense consisting of pointed stakes driven into the ramparts in a horizontal or inclined position.
Fraise	 A fluted reamer for enlarging holes in stone
Fraise	 To protect, as a line of troops, against an onset of cavalry, by opposing bayonets raised obliquely forward.
Fraised	 Fortified with a fraise.
Fraken	 A freckle.
Framable	 Capable of being framed.
Frambaesia	 The yaws. See Yaws.
Framed	 of Frame
Framing	 of Frame
Frame	 To construct by fitting and uniting the several parts of the skeleton of any structure; specifically, in woodwork, to put together by cutting parts of one member to fit parts of another. See Dovetail, Halve, v. t., Miter, Tenon, Tooth, Tusk, Scarf, and Splice.
Frame	 To originate; to plan; to devise; to contrive; to compose; in a bad sense, to invent or fabricate, as something false.
Frame	 To fit to something else, or for some specific end; to adjust; to regulate; to shape; to conform.
Frame	 To cause
Frame	 To support.
Frame	 To provide with a frame, as a picture.
Frame	 To shape; to arrange, as the organs of speech.
Frame	 To proceed
Frame	 Anything composed of parts fitted and united together; a fabric; a structure; esp., the constructional system, whether of timber or metal, that gives to a building, vessel, etc., its model and strength; the skeleton of a structure.
Frame	 The bodily structure
Frame	 A kind of open case or structure made for admitting, inclosing, or supporting things, as that which incloses or contains a window, door, picture, etc.; that on which anything is held or stretched
Frame	 The skeleton structure which supports the boiler and machinery of a locomotive upon its wheels.
Frame	 A molding box or flask, which being filled with sand serves as a mold for castings.
Frame	 The ribs and stretchers of an umbrella or other structure with a fabric covering.
Frame	 A structure of four bars, adjustable in size, on which cloth, etc., is stretched for quilting, embroidery, etc.
Frame	 A glazed portable structure for protecting young plants from frost.
Frame	 A stand to support the type cases for use by the compositor.
Frame	 A term applied, especially in England, to certain machines built upon or within framework; as, a stocking frame; lace frame; spinning frame, etc.
Frame	 Form; shape; proportion; scheme; structure; constitution; system; as, a frameof government.
Frame	 Particular state or disposition, as of the mind; humor; temper; mood; as, to be always in a happy frame.
Frame	 Contrivance
Framer	 One who frames; as, the framer of a building; the framers of the Constitution.
Framework	 The work of framing, or the completed work; the frame or constructional part of anything; as, the framework of society.
Framework	 Work done in, or by means of, a frame or loom.
Framing	 The act, process, or style of putting together a frame, or of constructing anything; a frame; that which frames.
Framing	 A framework, or a sy/ of frames.
Frampel	 Alt. of Frampoid
Frampoid	 Peevish
Franc	 A silver coin of France, and since 1795 the unit of the French monetary system. It has been adopted by Belgium and Swizerland. It is equivalent to about nineteen cents, or ten pence, and is divided into 100 centimes.
Franchise	 Exemption from constraint or oppression
Franchise	 A particular privilege conferred by grant from a sovereign or a government, and vested in individuals; an imunity or exemption from ordinary jurisdiction; a constitutional or statutory right or privilege, esp. the right to vote.
Franchise	 The district or jurisdiction to which a particular privilege extends; the limits of an immunity; hence, an asylum or sanctuary.
Franchise	 Magnanimity
Franchised	 of Franchise
Franchising	 of Franchise
Franchise	 To make free
Franchisement	 Release
Francic	 Pertaining to the Franks, or their language; Frankish.
Franciscan	 Belonging to the Order of St. Francis of the Franciscans.
Franciscan	 A monk or friar of the Order of St. Francis, a large and zealous order of mendicant monks founded in 1209 by St. Francis of Assisi. They are called also Friars Minor; and in England, Gray Friars, because they wear a gray habit.
Francolin	 A spurred partidge of the genus Francolinus and allied genera, of Asia and Africa. The common species (F. vulgaris) was formerly common in southern Europe, but is now nearly restricted to Asia.
Francolite	 A variety of apatite from Wheal Franco in Devonshire.
Frangent	 Causing fracture
Frangibility	 The state or quality of being frangible.
Frangible	 Capable of being broken
Frangipane	 A perfume of jasmine
Frangipane	 A species of pastry, containing cream and almonds.
Frangipani	 Alt. of Frangipanni
Frangipanni	 A perfume derived from, or imitating the odor of, the flower of the red jasmine, a West Indian tree of the genus Plumeria.
Frangulic	 Alt. of Frangulinic
Frangulinic	 Pertaining to, or drived from, frangulin, or a species (Rhamnus Frangula) of the buckthorn.
Frangulin	 A yellow crystalline dyestuff, regarded as a glucoside, extracted from a species (Rhamnus Frangula) of the buckthorn; -- called also rhamnoxanthin.
Franion	 A paramour; a loose woman; also, a gay, idle fellow.
Frank	 A pigsty.
Frank	 To shut up in a frank or sty; to pen up; hence, to cram; to fatten.
Frank	 The common heron
Frank	 Unbounded by restrictions, limitations, etc.; free.
Frank	 Free in uttering one's real sentiments; not reserved; using no disguise; candid; ingenuous; as, a frank nature, conversation, manner, etc.
Frank	 Liberal
Frank	 Unrestrained
Franked	 of Frank
Franking	 of Frank
Frank	 To send by public conveyance free of expense.
Frank	 To extempt from charge for postage, as a letter, package, or packet, etc.
Frank	 The privilege of sending letters or other mail matter, free of postage, or without charge; also, the sign, mark, or signature denoting that a letter or other mail matter is to free of postage.
Frank	 A member of one of the German tribes that in the fifth century overran and conquered Gaul, and established the kingdom of France.
Frank	 A native or inhabitant of Western Europe
Frank	 A French coin. See Franc.
Frankalmoigne	 A tenure by which a religious corporation holds lands given to them and their successors forever, usually on condition of praying for the soul of the donor and his heirs; -- called also tenure by free alms.
Frank-chase	 The liberty or franchise of having a chase
Frank-fee	 A species of tenure in fee simple, being the opposite of ancient demesne, or copyhold.
Frankfort	 black A black pigment used in copperplate printing, prepared by burning vine twigs, the lees of wine, etc.
Frankincense	 A fragrant, aromatic resin, or gum resin, burned as an incense in religious rites or for medicinal fumigation. The best kinds now come from East Indian trees, of the genus Boswellia; a commoner sort, from the Norway spruce (Abies excelsa) and other coniferous trees. The frankincense of the ancient Jews is still unidentified.
Franking	 A method of forming a joint at the intersection of window-sash bars, by cutting away only enough wood to show a miter.
Frankish	 Like, or pertaining to, the Franks.
Frank-law	 The liberty of being sworn in courts, as a juror or witness; one of the ancient privileges of a freeman; free and common law; -- an obsolete expression signifying substantially the same as the American expression civil rights.
Franklin	 An English freeholder, or substantial householder.
Franklinic	 Of or pertaining to Benjamin Franklin.
Franklinite	 A kind of mineral of the spinel group.
Franklin	 stove A kind of open stove introduced by Benjamin Franklin, the peculiar feature of which was that a current of heated air was directly supplied to the room from an air box; -- now applied to other varieties of open stoves.
Frankly	 In a frank manner
Frank-marriage	 A certain tenure in tail special; an estate of inheritance given to a man his wife (the wife being of the blood of the donor), and descendible to the heirs of their two bodies begotten.
Frankness	 The quality of being frank
Frankpledge	 A pledge or surety for the good behavior of freemen, -- each freeman who was a member of an ancient decennary, tithing, or friborg, in England, being a pledge for the good conduct of the others, for the preservation of the public peace; a free surety.
Frankpledge	 The tithing itself.
Frantic	 Mad
Frapped	 of Frap
Frapping	 of Frap
Frap	 To draw together; to bind with a view to secure and strengthen, as a vessel by passing cables around it; to tighten; as a tackle by drawing the lines together.
Frap	 To brace by drawing together, as the cords of a drum.
Frape	 A crowd, a rabble.
Frapler	 A blusterer
Frater	 A monk; also, a frater house.
Fraternal	 Pf, pertaining to, or involving, brethren; becoming to brothers; brotherly; as, fraternal affection; a fraternal embrace.
Fraternate	 To fraternize
Fraternation	 Alt. of Fraternism
Fraternism	 Fraternization.
Fraternities	 of Fraternity
Fraternity	 The state or quality of being fraternal or brotherly
Fraternity	 A body of men associated for their common interest, business, or pleasure; a company; a brotherhood; a society; in the Roman Catholic Chucrch, an association for special religious purposes, for relieving the sick and destitute, etc.
Fraternity	 Men of the same class, profession, occupation, character, or tastes.
Fraternization	 The act of fraternizing or uniting as brothers.
Fraternized	 of Fraternize
Fraternizing	 of Fraternize
Fraternize	 To associate or hold fellowship as brothers, or as men of like occupation or character; to have brotherly feelings.
Fraternize	 To bring into fellowship or brotherly sympathy.
Fraternizer	 One who fraternizes.
Fratery	 A frater house. See under Frater.
Fratrage	 A sharing among brothers, or brothers' kin.
Fratricelli	 The name which St. Francis of Assisi gave to his followers, early in the 13th century.
Fratricelli	 A sect which seceded from the Franciscan Order, chiefly in Italy and Sicily, in 1294, repudiating the pope as an apostate, maintaining the duty of celibacy and poverty, and discountenancing oaths. Called also Fratricellians and Fraticelli.
Fratricidal	 Of or pertaining to fratricide
Fratricide	 The act of one who murders or kills his own brother.
Fratricide	 One who murders or kills his own brother.
Fraud	 Deception deliberately practiced with a view to gaining an unlawful or unfair advantage
Fraud	 An intentional perversion of truth for the purpose of obtaining some valuable thing or promise from another.
Fraud	 A trap or snare.
Fraudful	 Full of fraud, deceit, or treachery; trickish; treacherous; fraudulent; -- applied to persons or things.
Fraudless	 Free from fraud.
Fraudulence	 Alt. of Fraudulency
Fraudulency	 The quality of being fraudulent
Fraudulent	 Using fraud
Fraudulent	 Characterized by,, founded on, or proceeding from, fraund; as, a fraudulent bargain.
Fraudulent	 Obtained or performed by artifice; as, fraudulent conquest.
Fraudulently	 In a fraudulent manner.
Fraught	 A freight
Fraught	 Freighted
Fraughted	 of Fraught
Fraught	 of Fraught
Fraughting	 of Fraught
Fraught	 To freight
Fraughtage	 Freight
Fraughting	 Constituting the freight or cargo.
Fraunhofer	 lines The lines of the spectrun; especially and properly, the dark lines of the solar spectrum, so called because first accurately observed and interpreted by Fraunhofer, a German physicist.
Fraxin	 A colorless crystalline substance, regarded as a glucoside, and found in the bark of the ash (Fraxinus) and along with esculin in the bark of the horse-chestnut. It shows a delicate fluorescence in alkaline solutions; -- called also paviin.
Fraxinus	 A genus of deciduous forest trees, found in the north temperate zone, and including the true ash trees.
Fray	 Affray
Frayed	 of Fray
Fraying	 of Fray
Fray	 To frighten
Fray	 To bear the expense of
Fray	 To rub; to wear off, or wear into shreds, by rubbing; to fret, as cloth; as, a deer is said to fray her head.
Fray	 To rub.
Fray	 To wear out or into shreads, or to suffer injury by rubbing, as when the threads of the warp or of the woof wear off so that the cross threads are loose; to ravel; as, the cloth frays badly.
Fray	 A fret or chafe, as in cloth; a place injured by rubbing.
Fraying	 The skin which a deer frays from his horns.
Freaked	 of Freak
Freaking	 of Freak
Freak	 To variegate
Freak	 A sudden causeless change or turn of the mind
Freaking	 Freakish.
Freakish	 Apt to change the mind suddenly
Freck	 To checker
Freckle	 A small yellowish or brownish spot in the skin, particularly on the face, neck, or hands.
Freckle	 Any small spot or discoloration.
Freckled	 of Freckle
Freckling	 of Freckle
Freckle	 To spinkle or mark with freckle or small discolored spots
Freckle	 To become covered or marked with freckles
Freckled	 Marked with freckles
Freckledness	 The state of being freckled.
Freckly	 Full of or marked with freckles
Fred	 Peace; -- a word used in composition, especially in proper names; as, Alfred; Frederic.
Fredstole	 See Fridstol.
Free	 Exempt from subjection to the will of others; not under restraint, control, or compulsion; able to follow one's own impulses, desires, or inclinations; determining one's own course of action; not dependent; at liberty.
Free	 Not under an arbitrary or despotic government; subject only to fixed laws regularly and fairly administered, and defended by them from encroachments upon natural or acquired rights; enjoying political liberty.
Free	 Liberated, by arriving at a certain age, from the control of parents, guardian, or master.
Free	 Not confined or imprisoned
Free	 Not subjected to the laws of physical necessity
Free	 Clear of offense or crime
Free	 Unconstrained by timidity or distrust
Free	 Unrestrained
Free	 Not close or parsimonious; liberal; open-handed; lavish; as, free with his money.
Free	 Exempt; clear; released; liberated; not encumbered or troubled with; as, free from pain; free from a burden; -- followed by from, or, rarely, by of.
Free	 Characteristic of one acting without restraint
Free	 Ready; eager; acting without spurring or whipping; spirited; as, a free horse.
Free	 Invested with a particular freedom or franchise
Free	 Thrown open, or made accessible, to all; to be enjoyed without limitations; unrestricted; not obstructed, engrossed, or appropriated; open; -- said of a thing to be possessed or enjoyed; as, a free school.
Free	 Not gained by importunity or purchase; gratuitous; spontaneous; as, free admission; a free gift.
Free	 Not arbitrary or despotic; assuring liberty; defending individual rights against encroachment by any person or class; instituted by a free people; -- said of a government, institutions, etc.
Free	 Certain or honorable; the opposite of base; as, free service; free socage.
Free	 Privileged or individual; the opposite of common; as, a free fishery; a free warren.
Free	 Not united or combined with anything else; separated; dissevered; unattached; at liberty to escape; as, free carbonic acid gas; free cells.
Free	 Freely
Free	 Without charge; as, children admitted free.
Freed	 of Free
Freeing	 of Free
Free	 To make free; to set at liberty; to rid of that which confines, limits, embarrasses, oppresses, etc.; to release; to disengage; to clear; -- followed by from, and sometimes by off; as, to free a captive or a slave; to be freed of these inconveniences.
Free	 To remove, as something that confines or bars; to relieve from the constraint of.
Free	 To frank.
Freebooter	 One who plunders or pillages without the authority of national warfare
Freebootery	 The act, practice, or gains of a freebooter; freebooting.
Freebooting	 Robbery
Freebooting	 Acting the freebooter
Freebooty	 Freebootery.
Freeborn	 Born free
Free-denizen	 To make free.
Freedmen	 of Freedman
Freedman	 A man who has been a slave, and has been set free.
Freedom	 The state of being free
Freedom	 Privileges
Freedom	 Exemption from necessity, in choise and action; as, the freedom of the will.
Freedom	 Ease; facility; as, he speaks or acts with freedom.
Freedom	 Frankness
Freedom	 Improper familiarity
Freedom	 Generosity
Freedstool	 See Fridstol.
Free-hand	 Done by the hand, without support, or the guidance of instruments; as, free-hand drawing. See under Drawing.
Free-handed	 Open-handed
Free-hearted	 Open; frank; unreserved; liberal; generous; as, free-hearted mirth.
Freehold	 An estate in real property, of inheritance (in fee simple or fee tail) or for life; or the tenure by which such estate is held.
Freeholder	 The possessor of a freehold.
Free-liver	 One who gratifies his appetites without stint
Free-living	 Unrestrained indulgence of the appetites.
Free-love	 The doctrine or practice of consorting with the opposite sex, at pleasure, without marriage.
Free-lover	 One who believes in or practices free-love.
Freelte	 Frailty.
Freely	 In a free manner
Freemen	 of Freeman
Freeman	 One who enjoys liberty, or who is not subject to the will of another; one not a slave or vassal.
Freeman	 A member of a corporation, company, or city, possessing certain privileges; a member of a borough, town, or State, who has the right to vote at elections. See Liveryman.
Free-martin	 An imperfect female calf, twinborn with a male.
Freemason	 One of an ancient and secret association or fraternity, said to have been at first composed of masons or builders in stone, but now consisting of persons who are united for social enjoyment and mutual assistance.
Freemasonic	 Pertaining to, or resembling, the institutions or the practices of freemasons; as, a freemasonic signal.
Freemasonry	 The institutions or the practices of freemasons.
Free-milling	 Yielding free gold or silver; -- said of certain ores which can be reduced by crushing and amalgamation, without roasting or other chemical treatment.
Free-minded	 Not perplexed
Freeness	 The state or quality of being free
Freer	 One who frees, or sets free.
Free-soil	 Pertaining to, or advocating, the non-extension of slavery; -- esp. applied to a party which was active during the period 1846-1856.
Free-spoken	 Accustomed to speak without reserve.
Freestone	 A stone composed of sand or grit
Freestone	 Having the flesh readily separating from the stone, as in certain kinds of peaches.
Free-swimming	 Swimming in the open sea
Freethinker	 One who speculates or forms opinions independently of the authority of others; esp., in the sphere or religion, one who forms opinions independently of the authority of revelation or of the church; an unbeliever; -- a term assumed by deists and skeptics in the eighteenth century.
Freethinking	 Undue boldness of speculation
Freethinking	 Exhibiting undue boldness of speculation
Free-tongued	 Speaking without reserve.
Free	 will A will free from improper coercion or restraint.
Free	 will The power asserted of moral beings of willing or choosing without the restraints of physical or absolute necessity.
Freewill	 Of or pertaining to free will; voluntary; spontaneous; as, a freewill offering.
Freezable	 Capable of being frozen.
Freeze	 A frieze.
Froze	 of Freeze
Frozen	 of Freeze
Freezing	 of Freeze
Freeze	 To become congealed by cold
Freeze	 To become chilled with cold, or as with cold; to suffer loss of animation or life by lack of heat; as, the blood freezes in the veins.
Freeze	 To congeal; to harden into ice; to convert from a fluid to a solid form by cold, or abstraction of heat.
Freeze	 To cause loss of animation or life in, from lack of heat; to give the sensation of cold to; to chill.
Freeze	 The act of congealing, or the state of being congealed.
Freezer	 One who, or that which, cools or freezes, as a refrigerator, or the tub and can used in the process of freezing ice cream.
Freezing	 Tending to freeze; for freezing; hence, cold or distant in manner.
Freieslebenite	 A sulphide of antimony, lead, and silver, occuring in monoclinic crystals.
Freight	 That with which anything in fraught or laden for transportation; lading; cargo, especially of a ship, or a car on a railroad, etc.; as, a freight of cotton; a full freight.
Freight	 The sum paid by a party hiring a ship or part of a ship for the use of what is thus hired.
Freight	 The price paid a common carrier for the carriage of goods.
Freight	 Freight transportation, or freight line.
Freight	 Employed in the transportation of freight; having to do with freight; as, a freight car.
Freighted	 of Freight
Freighting	 of Freight
Freight	 To load with goods, as a ship, or vehicle of any kind, for transporting them from one place to another; to furnish with freight; as, to freight a ship; to freight a car.
Freightage	 Charge for transportation
Freightage	 The transportation of freight.
Freightage	 Freight
Freighter	 One who loads a ship, or one who charters and loads a ship.
Freighter	 One employed in receiving and forwarding freight.
Freighter	 One for whom freight is transported.
Freighter	 A vessel used mainly to carry freight.
Freightless	 Destitute of freight.
Frelte	 Frailty.
Fremd	 Alt. of Fremed
Fremed	 Strange
Fren	 A stranger.
French	 Of or pertaining to France or its inhabitants.
French	 The language spoken in France.
French	 Collectively, the people of France.
Frenchified	 of Frenchify
Frenchifying	 of Frenchify
Frenchify	 To make French
Frenchism	 A French mode or characteristic
Frenchmen	 of Frenchman
Frenchman	 A native or one of the people of France.
Frenetir	 Distracted
Frenetical	 Frenetic
Frenums	 of Frenum
Frena	 of Frenum
Frenum	 A cheek stripe of color.
Frenum	 Same as Fraenum.
Frenzical	 Frantic.
Frenzied	 Affected with frenzy
Frenzies	 of Frenzy
Frenzy	 Any violent agitation of the mind approaching to distraction
Frenzy	 Mad
Frenzy	 To affect with frenzy
Frequence	 A crowd
Frequence	 Frequency
Frequencies	 of Frequency
Frequency	 The condition of returning frequently; occurrence often repeated; common occurence; as, the frequency of crimes; the frequency of miracles.
Frequency	 A crowd
Frequent	 Often to be met with; happening at short intervals; often repeated or occurring; as, frequent visits.
Frequent	 Addicted to any course of conduct
Frequent	 Full
Frequent	 Often or commonly reported.
Frequented	 of Frequent
Frequenting	 of Frequent
Frequent	 To visit often
Frequent	 To make full
Frequentable	 Accessible.
Frequentage	 The practice or habit of frequenting.
Frequentation	 The act or habit of frequenting or visiting often
Frequentative	 Serving to express the frequent repetition of an action; as, a frequentative verb.
Frequentative	 A frequentative verb.
Frequenter	 One who frequents; one who often visits, or resorts to customarily.
Frequently	 At frequent or short intervals
Frequentness	 The quality of being frequent.
Frere	 A friar.
Frescade	 A cool walk
Frescoes	 of Fresco
Frescos	 of Fresco
Fresco	 A cool, refreshing state of the air; duskiness; coolness; shade.
Fresco	 The art of painting on freshly spread plaster, before it dries.
Fresco	 In modern parlance, incorrectly applied to painting on plaster in any manner.
Fresco	 A painting on plaster in either of senses a and b.
Frescoed	 of Fresco
Frescoing	 of Fresco
Fresco	 To paint in fresco, as walls.
Fresh	 Possessed of original life and vigor
Fresh	 New
Fresh	 Lately produced, gathered, or prepared for market; not stale; not dried or preserved; not wilted, faded, or tainted; in good condition; as, fresh vegetables, flowers, eggs, meat, fruit, etc.; recently made or obtained; occurring again; repeated; as, a fresh supply of goods; fresh tea, raisins, etc.; lately come or made public; as, fresh news; recently taken from a well or spring; as, fresh water.
Fresh	 Youthful; florid; as, these fresh nymphs.
Fresh	 In a raw, green, or untried state; uncultivated; uncultured; unpracticed; as, a fresh hand on a ship.
Fresh	 Renewed in vigor, alacrity, or readiness for action; as, fresh for a combat; hence, tending to renew in vigor; rather strong; cool or brisk; as, a fresh wind.
Fresh	 Not salt; as, fresh water, in distinction from that which is from the sea, or brackish; fresh meat, in distinction from that which is pickled or salted.
Freshes	 of Fresh
Fresh	 A stream or spring of fresh water.
Fresh	 A flood
Fresh	 The mingling of fresh water with salt in rivers or bays, as by means of a flood of fresh water flowing toward or into the sea.
Fresh	 To refresh
Freshened	 of Freshen
Freshening	 of Freshen
Freshen	 To make fresh; to separate, as water, from saline ingredients; to make less salt; as, to freshen water, fish, or flesh.
Freshen	 To refresh
Freshen	 To relieve, as a rope, by change of place where friction wears it; or to renew, as the material used to prevent chafing; as, to freshen a hawse.
Freshen	 To grow fresh
Freshen	 To grow brisk or strong; as, the wind freshens.
Freshet	 A stream of fresh water.
Freshet	 A flood or overflowing of a stream caused by heavy rains or melted snow
Freshly	 In a fresh manner; vigorously; newly, recently; brightly; briskly; coolly; as, freshly gathered; freshly painted; the wind blows freshly.
Freshmen	 of Freshman
Freshman	 novice; one in the rudiments of knowledge; especially, a student during his fist year in a college or university.
Freshmanship	 The state of being a freshman.
Freshment	 Refreshment.
Freshness	 The state of being fresh.
Fresh-new	 Unpracticed.
Fresh-water	 Of, pertaining to, or living in, water not salt; as, fresh-water geological deposits; a fresh-water fish; fresh-water mussels.
Fresh-water	 Accustomed to sail on fresh water only; unskilled as a seaman; as, a fresh-water sailor.
Fresh-water	 Unskilled
Fresnel	 lamp Alt. of Fres'nel' lan'tern
Fres'nel'	 lan'tern A lantern having a lamp surrounded by a hollow cylindrical Fresnel lens.
Fresnel	 lens See under Lens.
Fret	 See 1st Frith.
Fretted	 of Fret
Fretting	 of Fret
Fret	 To devour.
Fret	 To rub; to wear away by friction; to chafe; to gall; hence, to eat away; to gnaw; as, to fret cloth; to fret a piece of gold or other metal; a worm frets the plants of a ship.
Fret	 To impair
Fret	 To make rough, agitate, or disturb; to cause to ripple; as, to fret the surface of water.
Fret	 To tease
Fret	 To be worn away; to chafe; to fray; as, a wristband frets on the edges.
Fret	 To eat in
Fret	 To be agitated; to be in violent commotion; to rankle; as, rancor frets in the malignant breast.
Fret	 To be vexed
Fret	 The agitation of the surface of a fluid by fermentation or other cause
Fret	 Agitation of mind marked by complaint and impatience; disturbance of temper; irritation; as, he keeps his mind in a continual fret.
Fret	 Herpes
Fret	 The worn sides of river banks, where ores, or stones containing them, accumulate by being washed down from the hills, and thus indicate to the miners the locality of the veins.
Fret	 To ornament with raised work
Fret	 Ornamental work in relief, as carving or embossing. See Fretwork.
Fret	 An ornament consisting of smmall fillets or slats intersecting each other or bent at right angles, as in classical designs, or at obilique angles, as often in Oriental art.
Fret	 The reticulated headdress or net, made of gold or silver wire, in which ladies in the Middle Ages confined their hair.
Fret	 A saltire interlaced with a mascle.
Fret	 A short piece of wire, or other material fixed across the finger board of a guitar or a similar instrument, to indicate where the finger is to be placed.
Fret	 To furnish with frets, as an instrument of music.
Fretful	 Disposed to fret; ill-humored; peevish; angry; in a state of vexation; as, a fretful temper.
Frett	 The worn side of the bank of a river. See 4th Fret, n., 4.
Frett	 A vitreous compound, used by potters in glazing, consisting of lime, silica, borax, lead, and soda.
Fretted	 Rubbed or worn away
Fretted	 Agitated
Fretted	 Ornamented with fretwork
Fretted	 Interlaced one with another
Fretten	 Rubbed; marked; as, pock-fretten, marked with the smallpox.
Fretter	 One who, or that which, frets.
Fretty	 Adorned with fretwork.
Freta	 of Fretum
Fretum	 A strait, or arm of the sea.
Fretwork	 Work adorned with frets; ornamental openwork or work in relief, esp. when elaborate and minute in its parts. Hence, any minute play of light and shade, dark and light, or the like.
Freya	 The daughter of Njord, and goddess of love and beauty; the Scandinavian Venus; -- in Teutonic myths confounded with Frigga, but in Scandinavian, distinct.
Friabiiity	 The quality of being friable
Friable	 Easily crumbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder.
Friar	 A brother or member of any religious order, but especially of one of the four mendicant orders, viz: (a) Minors, Gray Friars, or Franciscans. (b) Augustines. (c) Dominicans or Black Friars. (d) White Friars or Carmelites. See these names in the Vocabulary.
Friar	 A white or pale patch on a printed page.
Friar	 An American fish
Friarly	 Like a friar
Friary	 Like a friar
Friary	 A monastery
Friary	 The institution or praactices of friars.
Friation	 The act of breaking up or pulverizing.
Frible	 Frivolous
Fribble	 A frivolous, contemptible fellow; a fop.
Fribble	 To act in a trifling or foolish manner
Fribble	 To totter.
Fribbler	 A trifler
Fribbling	 Frivolous
Friborg	 Alt. of Friborgh
Friborgh	 The pledge and tithing, afterwards called by the Normans frankpledge. See Frankpledge.
Fricace	 Meat sliced and dressed with strong sauce.
Fricace	 An unguent; also, the act of rubbing with the unguent.
Fricandeau	 Alt. of Fricando
Fricando	 A ragout or fricassee of veal; a fancy dish of veal or of boned turkey, served as an entree, -- called also fricandel.
Fricassee	 A dish made of fowls, veal, or other meat of small animals cut into pieces, and stewed in a gravy.
Fricassed	 of Frlcassee
Fricasseeing	 of Frlcassee
Frlcassee	 To dress like a fricassee.
Frication	 Friction.
Fricative	 Produced by the friction or rustling of the breath, intonated or unintonated, through a narrow opening between two of the mouth organs; uttered through a close approach, but not with a complete closure, of the organs of articulation, and hence capable of being continued or prolonged; -- said of certain consonantal sounds, as f, v, s, z, etc.
Fricative	 A fricative consonant letter or sound. See Guide to Pronunciation, // 197-206, etc.
Fricatrice	 A lewd woman
Frickle	 A bushel basket.
Ftiction	 The act of rubbing the surface of one body against that of another; attrition; in hygiene, the act of rubbing the body with the hand, with flannel, or with a brush etc., to excite the skin to healthy action.
Ftiction	 The resistance which a body meets with from the surface on which it moves. It may be resistance to sliding motion, or to rolling motion.
Ftiction	 A clashing between two persons or parties in opinions or work
Frictional	 Relating to friction; moved by friction; produced by friction; as, frictional electricity.
Frictionless	 Having no friction.
Friday	 The sixth day of the week, following Thursday and preceding Saturday.
Fridge	 To rub
Fridstol	 Alt. of Frithstool
Frithstool	 A seat in churches near the altar, to which offenders formerly fled for sanctuary.
Fried	 imp. & p. p. of Fry.
Friend	 One who entertains for another such sentiments of esteem, respect, and affection that he seeks his society aud welfare; a wellwisher; an intimate associate; sometimes, an attendant.
Friend	 One not inimical or hostile; one not a foe or enemy; also, one of the same nation, party, kin, etc., whose friendly feelings may be assumed. The word is some times used as a term of friendly address.
Friend	 One who looks propitiously on a cause, an institution, a project, and the like; a favorer; a promoter; as, a friend to commerce, to poetry, to an institution.
Friend	 One of a religious sect characterized by disuse of outward rites and an ordained ministry, by simplicity of dress and speech, and esp. by opposition to war and a desire to live at peace with all men. They are popularly called Quakers.
Friend	 A paramour of either sex.
Friended	 of Friend
Friending	 of Friend
Friend	 To act as the friend of
Friended	 Having friends
Friended	 Inclined to love
Friending	 Friendliness.
Friendless	 Destitute of friends
Friendlily	 In a friendly manner.
Friendliness	 The condition or quality of being friendly.
Friendly	 Having the temper and disposition of a friend
Friendly	 Appropriate to, or implying, friendship; befitting friends; amicable.
Friendly	 Not hostile; as, a friendly power or state.
Friendly	 Promoting the good of any person; favorable; propitious; serviceable; as, a friendly breeze or gale.
Friendly	 In the manner of friends
Friendship	 The state of being friends; friendly relation, or attachment, to a person, or between persons; affection arising from mutual esteem and good will; friendliness; amity; good will.
Friendship	 Kindly aid; help; assistance,
Friendship	 Aptness to unite
Frier	 One who fries.
Friese	 Same as Friesic, n.
Friesic	 Of or pertaining to Friesland, a province in the northern part of the Netherlands.
Friesic	 The language of the Frisians, a Teutonic people formerly occupying a large part of the coast of Holland and Northwestern Germany. The modern dialects of Friesic are spoken chiefly in the province of Friesland, and on some of the islands near the coast of Germany and Denmark.
Friesish	 Friesic.
Frieze	 That part of the entablature of an order which is between the architrave and cornice. It is a flat member or face, either uniform or broken by triglyphs, and often enriched with figures and other ornaments of sculpture.
Frieze	 Any sculptured or richly ornamented band in a building or, by extension, in rich pieces of furniture. See Illust. of Column.
Frieze	 A kind of coarse woolen cloth or stuff with a shaggy or tufted (friezed) nap on one side.
Frieze	 To make a nap on (cloth); to friz. See Friz, v. t., 2.
Friezed	 Gathered, or having the map gathered, into little tufts, knots, or protuberances. Cf. Frieze, v. t., and Friz, v. t., 2.
Friezer	 One who, or that which, friezes or frizzes.
Frigate	 Originally, a vessel of the Mediterranean propelled by sails and by oars. The French, about 1650, transferred the name to larger vessels, and by 1750 it had been appropriated for a class of war vessels intermediate between corvettes and ships of the line. Frigates, from about 1750 to 1850, had one full battery deck and, often, a spar deck with a lighter battery. They carried sometimes as many as fifty guns. After the application of steam to navigation steam frigates of largely increased size and power were built, and formed the main part of the navies of the world till about 1870, when the introduction of ironclads superseded them.
Frigate	 Any small vessel on the water.
Frigate-built	 Built like a frigate with a raised quarter-deck and forecastle.
Frigatoon	 A Venetian vessel, with a square stern, having only a mainmast, jigger mast, and bowsprit; also a sloop of war ship-rigged.
Frigefaction	 The act of making cold. [Obs.]
Frigefactive	 Cooling.
Frigerate	 To make cool.
Frigg	 Alt. of Frigga
Frigga	 The wife of Odin and mother of the gods
Fright	 A state of terror excited by the sudden appearance of danger; sudden and violent fear, usually of short duration; a sudden alarm.
Fright	 Anything strange, ugly or shocking, producing a feeling of alarm or aversion.
Frighted	 of Fright
Frighting	 of Fright
Fright	 To alarm suddenly
Frightened	 of Frighten
Frightening	 of Frighten
Frighten	 To disturb with fear
Frightful	 Full of fright
Frightful	 Full of that which causes fright; exciting alarm; impressing terror; shocking; as, a frightful chasm, or tempest; a frightful appearance.
Frightfully	 In a frightful manner
Frightfulness	 The quality of being frightful.
Frightless	 Free from fright
Frightment	 Fear
Frigid	 Cold; wanting heat or warmth; of low temperature; as, a frigid climate.
Frigid	 Wanting warmth, fervor, ardor, fire, vivacity, etc.; unfeeling; forbidding in manner; dull and unanimated; stiff and formal; as, a frigid constitution; a frigid style; a frigid look or manner; frigid obedience or service.
Frigid	 Wanting natural heat or vigor sufficient to excite the generative power
Frigidaria	 of Frigidarium
Frigidarium	 The cooling room of the Roman thermae, furnished with a cold bath.
Prigidity	 The condition or quality of being frigid
Prigidity	 Want of ardor, animation, vivacity, etc.; coldness of affection or of manner; dullness; stiffness and formality; as, frigidity of a reception, of a bow, etc.
Prigidity	 Want of heat or vigor; as, the frigidity of old age.
Frigidly	 In a frigid manner
Frigidness	 The state of being frigid; want of heat, vigor, or affection; coldness; dullness.
Frigorific	 Alt. of Frigorifical
Frigorifical	 Causing cold
Frilled	 of Frill
Frilling	 of Frill
Frill	 To shake or shiver as with cold; as, the hawk frills.
Frill	 To wrinkle
Frill	 To provide or decorate with a frill or frills; to turn back. in crimped plaits; as, to frill a cap.
Frill	 A ruffing of a bird's feathers from cold.
Frill	 A ruffle, consisting of a fold of membrane, of hairs, or of feathers, around the neck of an animal.
Frill	 A similar ruffle around the legs or other appendages of animals.
Frill	 A ruffled varex or fold on certain shells.
Frill	 A border or edging secured at one edge and left free at the other, usually fluted or crimped like a very narrow flounce.
Frilled	 Furnished with a frill or frills.
Frim	 Flourishing
Frimaire	 The third month of the French republican calendar. It commenced November 21, and ended December 20., See Vendemiaire.
Fringe	 An ornamental appendage to the border of a piece of stuff, originally consisting of the ends of the warp, projecting beyond the woven fabric; but more commonly made separate and sewed on, consisting sometimes of projecting ends, twisted or plaited together, and sometimes of loose threads of wool, silk, or linen, or narrow strips of leather, or the like.
Fringe	 Something resembling in any respect a fringe
Fringe	 One of a number of light or dark bands, produced by the interference of light; a diffraction band; -- called also interference fringe.
Fringe	 The peristome or fringelike appendage of the capsules of most mosses. See Peristome.
Fringed	 of Fringe
Fringing	 of Fringe
Fringe	 To adorn the edge of with a fringe or as with a fringe.
Fringed	 Furnished with a fringe.
Fringeless	 Having no fringe.
Fringent	 Encircling like a fringe
Fringilla	 A genus of birds, with a short, conical, pointed bill. It formerly included all the sparrows and finches, but is now restricted to certain European finches, like the chaffinch and brambling.
Fringillaceous	 Fringilline.
Fringilline	 Pertaining to the family Fringillidae
Fringy	 Aborned with fringes.
Fripper	 One who deals in frippery or in old clothes.
Fripperer	 A fripper.
Frippery	 Coast-off clothes.
Frippery	 Hence: Secondhand finery
Frippery	 A place where old clothes are sold.
Frippery	 The trade or traffic in old clothes.
Frippery	 Trifling
Friseur'	 A hairdresser.
Frisian	 Of or pertaining to Friesland, a province of the Netherlands; Friesic.
Frisian	 A native or inhabitant of Friesland; also, the language spoken in Friesland. See Friesic, n.
Frisk	 Lively
Frisk	 A frolic
Frisked	 of Frisk
Frisking	 of Frisk
Frisk	 To leap, skip, dance, or gambol, in fronc and gayety.
Friskal	 A leap or caper.
Frisker	 One who frisks
Frisket	 The light frame which holds the sheet of paper to the tympan in printing.
Friskful	 Brisk
Friskily'	 In a frisky manner.
Friskiness	 State or quality of being frisky.
Frisky	 Inclined to frisk
Frislet	 A kind of small ruffle.
Frist	 To sell upon credit, as goods.
Frisure	 The dressing of the hair by crisping or curling.
Frit	 The material of which glass is made, after having been calcined or partly fused in a furnace, but before vitrification. It is a composition of silex and alkali, occasionally with other ingredients.
Frit	 The material for glaze of pottery.
Fritted	 of Frit
Fritting	 of Frit
Frit	 To prepare by heat (the materials for making glass)
Frit	 To fritter
Frith	 A narrow arm of the sea; an estuary; the opening of a river into the sea; as, the Frith of Forth.
Frith	 A kind of weir for catching fish.
Frith	 A forest
Frith	 A small field taken out of a common, by inclosing it; an inclosure.
Frithy	 Woody.
Fritillaria	 A genus of liliaceous plants, of which the crown-imperial (Fritillaria imperialis) is one species, and the Guinea-hen flower (F. Meleagris) another. See Crown-imperial.
Fritillary	 A plant with checkered petals, of the genus Fritillaria: the Guinea-hen flower. See Fritillaria.
Fritillary	 One of several species of butterflies belonging to Argynnis and allied genera
Fritinancy	 A chirping or creaking, as of a cricket.
Fritter	 A small quantity of batter, fried in boiling lard or in a frying pan. Fritters are of various kinds, named from the substance inclosed in the batter; as, apple fritters, clam fritters, oyster fritters.
Fritter	 A fragment
Frittered	 of Fritter
Frittering	 of Fritter
Fritter	 To cut, as meat, into small pieces, for frying.
Fritter	 To break into small pieces or fragments.
Fritting	 The formation of frit or slag by heat with but incipient fusion.
Frivolism	 Frivolity.
Frivolities	 of Frivolity
Frivolity	 The condition or quality of being frivolous; also, acts or habits of trifling; unbecoming levity of disposition.
Frivolous	 Of little weight or importance; not worth notice; slight; as, a frivolous argument.
Frivolous	 Given to trifling
Frizzed	 of Friz
Frizzing	 of Friz
Friz	 To curl or form into small curls, as hair, with a crisping pin; to crisp.
Friz	 To form into little burs, prominences, knobs, or tufts, as the nap of cloth.
Friz	 To soften and make of even thickness by rubbing, as with pumice stone or a blunt instrument.
Frizzes	 of Friz
Friz	 That which is frizzed; anything crisped or curled, as a wig; a frizzle.
Frize	 See 1st Frieze.
Frizel	 A movable furrowed piece of steel struck by the flint, to throw sparks into the pan, in an early form of flintlock.
Frizette	 A curl of hair or silk
Frizz	 See Friz, v. t. & n.
Frizzled	 of Frizzle
Frizzling	 of Frizzle
Frizzle	 To curl or crisp, as hair; to friz; to crinkle.
Frizzle	 A curl
Frizzler	 One who frizzles.
Frizzly	 Alt. of Frizzy
Frizzy	 Curled or crisped; as, frizzly, hair.
Fro	 From; away; back or backward; -- now used only in opposition to the word to, in the phrase to and fro, that is, to and from. See To and fro under To.
Fro	 From.
Frock	 A loose outer garment; especially, a gown forming a part of European modern costume for women and children; also, a coarse shirtlike garment worn by some workmen over their other clothes; a smock frock; as, a marketman's frock.
Frock	 A coarse gown worn by monks or friars, and supposed to take the place of all, or nearly all, other garments. It has a hood which can be drawn over the head at pleasure, and is girded by a cord.
Frock	 To clothe in a frock.
Frock	 To make a monk of. Cf. Unfrock.
Frocked	 Clothed in a frock.
Frockless	 Destitute of a frock.
Froe	 A dirty woman
Froe	 An iron cleaver or splitting tool
Frog	 An amphibious animal of the genus Rana and related genera, of many species. Frogs swim rapidly, and take long leaps on land. Many of the species utter loud notes in the springtime.
Frog	 The triangular prominence of the hoof, in the middle of the sole of the foot of the horse, and other animals; the fourchette.
Frog	 A supporting plate having raised ribs that form continuations of the rails, to guide the wheels where one track branches from another or crosses it.
Frog	 An oblong cloak button, covered with netted thread, and fastening into a loop instead of a button hole.
Frog	 The loop of the scabbard of a bayonet or sword.
Frog	 To ornament or fasten (a coat, etc.) with trogs. See Frog, n., 4.
Frogbit	 A European plant (Hydrocharis Morsus-ranae), floating on still water and propagating itself by runners. It has roundish leaves and small white flowers.
Frogbit	 An American plant (Limnobium Spongia), with similar habits.
Frogfish	 See Angler, n., 2.
Frogfish	 An oceanic fish of the genus Antennarius or Pterophrynoides
Frogged	 Provided or ornamented with frogs; as, a frogged coat. See Frog, n., 4.
Froggy	 Abounding in frogs.
Frogmouth	 One of several species of Asiatic and East Indian birds of the genus Batrachostomus (family Podargidae); -- so called from their very broad, flat bills.
Frogs-bit	 Frogbit.
Frogshell	 One of numerous species of marine gastropod shells, belonging to Ranella and allied genera.
Froise	 A kind of pancake. See 1st Fraise.
Frolic	 Full of levity; dancing, playing, or frisking about; full of pranks; frolicsome; gay; merry.
Frolic	 A wild prank; a flight of levity, or of gayety and mirth.
Frolic	 A scene of gayety and mirth, as in lively play, or in dancing; a merrymaking.
Frolicked	 of Frolic
Frolicking	 of Frolic
Frolic	 To play wild pranks; to play tricks of levity, mirth, and gayety; to indulge in frolicsome play; to sport.
Frolicful	 Frolicsome.
Frolicky	 Frolicsome.
Frolicly	 In a frolicsome manner
Frolicsome	 Full of gayety and mirth
From	 Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the aritithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side; light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse; the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony.
Fromward	 Alt. of Fromwards
Fromwards	 A way from
Frond	 The organ formed by the combination or union into one body of stem and leaf, and often bearing the fructification; as, the frond of a fern or of a lichen or seaweed; also, the peculiar leaf of a palm tree.
Frondation	 The act of stripping, as trees, of leaves or branches; a kind of pruning.
Fronde	 A political party in France, during the minority of Louis XIV., who opposed the government, and made war upon the court party.
Fronded	 Furnished with fronds.
Frondent	 Covered with leaves; leafy; as, a frondent tree.
Frondesce	 To unfold leaves, as plants.
Frondescence	 The time at which each species of plants unfolds its leaves.
Frondescence	 The act of bursting into leaf.
Frondeur	 A member of the Fronde.
Frondiferous	 Producing fronds.
Frondlet	 A very small frond, or distinct portion of a compound frond.
Frondose	 Frond bearing
Frondose	 Leafy.
Frondous	 Frondose.
Frons	 The forehead
Front	 The forehead or brow, the part of the face above the eyes; sometimes, also, the whole face.
Front	 The forehead, countenance, or personal presence, as expressive of character or temper, and especially, of boldness of disposition, sometimes of impudence; seeming; as, a bold front; a hardened front.
Front	 The part or surface of anything which seems to look out, or to be directed forward; the fore or forward part; the foremost rank; the van; -- the opposite to back or rear; as, the front of a house; the front of an army.
Front	 A position directly before the face of a person, or before the foremost part of a thing; as, in front of un person, of the troops, or of a house.
Front	 The most conspicuous part.
Front	 That which covers the foremost part of the head: a front piece of false hair worn by women.
Front	 The beginning.
Front	 Of or relating to the front or forward part; having a position in front; foremost; as, a front view.
Fronted	 of Front
Fronting	 of Front
Front	 To oppose face to face
Front	 To appear before
Front	 To face toward; to have the front toward; to confront; as, the house fronts the street.
Front	 To stand opposed or opposite to, or over against as, his house fronts the church.
Front	 To adorn in front; to supply a front to; as, to front a house with marble; to front a head with laurel.
Front	 To have or turn the face or front in any direction; as, the house fronts toward the east.
Frontage	 The front part of an edifice or lot
Frontal	 Belonging to the front part
Frontal	 Of or pertaining to the forehead or the anterior part of the roof of the brain case; as, the frontal bones.
Frontal	 Something worn on the forehead or face
Frontal	 An ornamental band for the hair.
Frontal	 The metal face guard of a soldier.
Frontal	 A little pediment over a door or window.
Frontal	 A movable, decorative member in metal, carved wood, or, commonly, in rich stuff or in embroidery, covering the front of the altar. Frontals are usually changed according to the different ceremonies.
Frontal	 A medicament or application for the forehead.
Frontal	 The frontal bone, or one of the two frontal bones, of the cranium.
Frontate	 Alt. of Fron'tated
Fron'tated	 Growing broader and broader, as a leaf; truncate.
Fronted	 Formed with a front
Frontier	 That part of a country which fronts or faces another country or an unsettled region; the marches; the border, confine, or extreme part of a country, bordering on another country; the border of the settled and cultivated part of a country; as, the frontier of civilization.
Frontier	 An outwork.
Frontier	 Lying on the exterior part; bordering; conterminous; as, a frontier town.
Frontier	 Of or relating to a frontier.
Frontier	 To constitute or form a frontier
Frontiered	 Placed on the frontiers.
Frontiersmen	 of Floatiersman
Floatiersman	 A man living on the frontier.
Frontignac	 Alt. of Frontignan
Frontignan	 A sweet muscadine wine made in Frontignan (Languedoc), France.
Frontignan	 A grape of many varieties and colors.
Frontingly	 In a fronting or facing position
Frontiniac	 See Frontignac.
Frontispiece	 The part which first meets the eye
Frontispiece	 The principal front of a building.
Frontispiece	 An ornamental figure or illustration fronting the first page, or titlepage, of a book; formerly, the titlepage itself.
Frontless	 Without face or front
Frontlessly	 Shamelessly
Frontlet	 A frontal or brow band
Frontlet	 A frown (likened to a frontlet).
Frontlet	 The margin of the head, behind the bill of birds, often bearing rigid bristles.
Fronto-	 A combining form signifying relating to the forehead or the frontal bone; as, fronto-parietal, relating to the frontal and the parietal bones; fronto-nasal, etc.
Fronton	 Same as Frontal, 2.
Froppish	 Peevish
Frore	 Frostily.
Frorn	 Frozen.
Frory	 Frozen
Frory	 Covered with a froth like hoarfrost.
Frost	 The act of freezing
Frost	 The state or temperature of the air which occasions congelation, or the freezing of water; severe cold or freezing weather.
Frost	 Frozen dew
Frost	 Coldness or insensibility
Frostted	 of Frost
Frosting	 of Frost
Frost	 To injure by frost; to freeze, as plants.
Frost	 To cover with hoarfrost; to produce a surface resembling frost upon, as upon cake, metals, or glass.
Frost	 To roughen or sharpen, as the nail heads or calks of horseshoes, so as to fit them for frosty weather.
Frostbird	 The golden plover.
Frostbite	 The freezing, or effect of a freezing, of some part of the body, as the ears or nose.
Frostbite	 To expose to the effect of frost, or a frosty air; to blight or nip with frost.
Frost-bitten	 Nipped, withered, or injured, by frost or freezing.
Frost-blite	 A plant of the genus Atriplex
Frost-blite	 The lamb's-quarters (Chenopodium album).
Frosted	 Covered with hoarfrost or anything resembling hoarfrost; ornamented with frosting; also, frost-bitten; as, a frosted cake; frosted glass.
Frostfish	 The tomcod
Frostfish	 The smelt.
Frostfish	 A name applied in New Zealand to the scabbard fish (Lepidotus) valued as a food fish.
Frostily	 In a frosty manner.
Frostiness	 State or quality of being frosty.
Frosting	 A composition of sugar and beaten egg, used to cover or ornament cake, pudding, etc.
Frosting	 A lusterless finish of metal or glass
Frostless	 Free from frost; as, a frostless winter.
Frostweed	 An American species of rockrose (Helianthemum Canadense), sometimes used in medicine as an astringent or aromatic tonic.
Frostwork	 The figurework, often fantastic and delicate, which moisture sometimes forms in freezing, as upon a window pane or a flagstone.
Frostwort	 Same as Frostweed.
Frosty	 Attended with, or producing, frost; having power to congeal water; cold; freezing; as, a frosty night.
Frosty	 Covered with frost; as, the grass is frosty.
Frosty	 Chill in affection
Frosty	 Appearing as if covered with hoarfrost; white; gray-haired; as, a frosty head.
Frote	 To rub or wear by rubbing
Froterer	 One who frotes
Froth	 The bubbles caused in fluids or liquors by fermentation or agitation; spume; foam; esp., a spume of saliva caused by disease or nervous excitement.
Froth	 Any empty, senseless show of wit or eloquence; rhetoric without thought.
Froth	 Light, unsubstantial matter.
Frothed	 of Froth
Frothing	 of Froth
Froth	 To cause to foam.
Froth	 To spit, vent, or eject, as froth.
Froth	 To cover with froth; as, a horse froths his chain.
Froth	 To throw up or out spume, foam, or bubbles; to foam; as beer froths; a horse froths.
Frothily	 In a frothy manner.
Frothiness	 State or quality of being frothy.
Frothing	 Exaggerated declamation
Frothless	 Free from froth.
Frothy	 Full of foam or froth, or consisting of froth or light bubbles; spumous; foamy.
Frothy	 Not firm or solid
Frothy	 Of the nature of froth; light; empty; unsubstantial; as, a frothy speaker or harangue.
Frounced	 of Frounce
Frouncing	 of Frounce
Frounce	 To gather into or adorn with plaits, as a dress; to form wrinkles in or upon; to curl or frizzle, as the hair.
Frounce	 To form wrinkles in the forehead
Frounce	 A wrinkle, plait, or curl; a flounce; -- also, a frown.
Frounce	 An affection in hawks, in which white spittle gathers about the hawk's bill.
Frounceless	 Without frounces.
Frouzy	 Fetid, musty; rank; disordered and offensive to the smell or sight; slovenly; dingy. See Frowzy.
Frow	 A woman; especially, a Dutch or German woman.
Frow	 A dirty woman
Frow	 A cleaving tool with handle at right angles to the blade, for splitting cask staves and shingles from the block; a frower.
Frow	 Brittle.
Froward	 Not willing to yield or compIy with what is required or is reasonable; perverse; disobedient; peevish; as, a froward child.
Frower	 A tool. See 2d Frow.
Frowey	 Working smoothly, or without splitting; -- said of timber.
Frowned	 of Frown
Frowning	 of Frown
Frown	 To contract the brow in displeasure, severity, or sternness; to scowl; to put on a stern, grim, or surly look.
Frown	 To manifest displeasure or disapprobation; to look with disfavor or threateningly; to lower; as, polite society frowns upon rudeness.
Frown	 To repress or repel by expressing displeasure or disapproval; to rebuke with a look; as, frown the impudent fellow into silence.
Frown	 A wrinkling of the face in displeasure, rebuke, etc.; a sour, severe, or stere look; a scowl.
Frown	 Any expression of displeasure; as, the frowns of Providence; the frowns of Fortune.
Frowningly	 In a frowning manner.
Frowny	 Frowning
Frowy	 Musty. rancid; as, frowy butter.
Frowzy	 Slovenly
Froze	 imp. of Freeze.
Frozen	 Congealed with cold; affected by freezing; as, a frozen brook.
Frozen	 Subject to frost, or to long and severe cold; chilly; as, the frozen north; the frozen zones.
Frozen	 Cold-hearted
Frozenness	 A state of being frozen.
Frubish	 To rub up: to furbish.
Fructed	 Bearing fruit
Fructescence	 The maturing or ripening of fruit.
Fructiculose	 Fruitful
Fructidor	 The twelfth month of the French republican calendar; -- commencing August 18, and ending September 16. See Vendemiaire.
Fructiferuos	 Bearing or producing fruit.
Fructification	 The act of forming or producing fruit; the act of fructifying, or rendering productive of fruit; fecundation.
Fructification	 The collective organs by which a plant produces its fruit, or seeds, or reproductive spores.
Fructification	 The process of producing fruit, or seeds, or spores.
Fructify	 To bear fruit.
Fructified	 of Fructify
Fructifying	 of Fructify
Fructify	 To make fruitful; to render productive; to fertilize; as, to fructify the earth.
Fructose	 Fruit sugar
Fructuaries	 of Fructuary
Fructuary	 One who enjoys the profits, income, or increase of anything.
Fructuation	 Produce
Fructuous	 Fruitful
Fructure	 Use
Frue	 vanner A moving, inclined, endless apron on which ore is concentrated by a current of water; a kind of buddle.
Frugal	 Economical in the use or appropriation of resources; not wasteful or lavish; wise in the expenditure or application of force, materials, time, etc.; characterized by frugality; sparing; economical; saving; as, a frugal housekeeper; frugal of time.
Frugal	 Obtained by, or appropriate to, economy; as, a frugal fortune.
Frugalities	 of Frugality
Frugality	 The quality of being frugal; prudent economy; that careful management of anything valuable which expends nothing unnecessarily, and applies what is used to a profitable purpose; thrift; --- opposed to extravagance.
Frugality	 A sparing use; sparingness; as, frugality of praise.
Frugally	 Thriftily
Frugalness	 Quality of being frugal
Frugiferous	 Producing fruit
Frugivora	 The fruit bate; a group of the Cheiroptera, comprising the bats which live on fruits. See Eruit bat, under Fruit.
Frugivorous	 Feeding on fruit, as birds and other animals.
Fruit	 Whatever is produced for the nourishment or enjoyment of man or animals by the processes of vegetable growth, as corn, grass, cotton, flax, etc.; -- commonly used in the plural.
Fruit	 The pulpy, edible seed vessels of certain plants, especially those grown on branches above ground, as apples, oranges, grapes, melons, berries, etc. See 3.
Fruit	 The ripened ovary of a flowering plant, with its contents and whatever parts are consolidated with it.
Fruit	 The spore cases or conceptacles of flowerless plants, as of ferns, mosses, algae, etc., with the spores contained in them.
Fruit	 The produce of animals; offspring; young; as, the fruit of the womb, of the loins, of the body.
Fruit	 That which is produced; the effect or consequence of any action; advantageous or desirable product or result; disadvantageous or evil consequence or effect; as, the fruits of labor, of self-denial, of intemperance.
Fruit	 To bear fruit.
Fruitage	 Fruit, collectively; fruit, in general; fruitery.
Fruitage	 Product or result of any action; effect, good or ill.
Fruiter	 A ship for carrying fruit.
Fruiterer	 One who deals in fruit
Fruiteress	 A woman who sells fruit.
Fruiteries	 of Fruitery
Fruitery	 Fruit, taken collectively; fruitage.
Fruitery	 A repository for fruit.
Fruitestere	 A fruiteress.
Fruitful	 Full of fruit; producing fruit abundantly; bearing results; prolific; fertile; liberal; bountiful; as, a fruitful tree, or season, or soil; a fruitful wife.
Fruiting	 Pertaining to, or producing, fruit.
Fruiting	 The bearing of fruit.
Fruition	 Use or possession of anything, especially such as is accompanied with pleasure or satisfaction; pleasure derived from possession or use.
Fruitive	 Enjoying
Fruitless	 Lacking, or not bearing, fruit; barren; destitute of offspring; as, a fruitless tree or shrub; a fruitless marriage.
Fruitless	 Productive of no advantage or good effect; vain; idle; useless; unprofitable; as, a fruitless attempt; a fruitless controversy.
Fruit'y	 Having the odor, taste, or appearance of fruit; also, fruitful.
Frumentaceous	 Made of, or resembling, wheat or other grain.
Frumentarious	 Of or pertaining to wheat or grain.
Frumentation	 A largess of grain bestowed upon the people, to quiet them when uneasy.
Frumenty	 Food made of hulled wheat boiled in milk, with sugar, plums, etc.
Frump	 To insult
Frump	 A contemptuous speech or piece of conduct
Frump	 A cross, old-fashioned person; esp., an old woman; a gossip.
Frumper	 A mocker.
Frumpish	 Cross-tempered
Frumpish	 Old-fashioned, as a woman's dress.
Frush	 To batter
Frush	 Easily broken
Frush	 Noise
Frush	 The frog of a horse's foot.
Frush	 A discharge of a fetid or ichorous matter from the frog of a horse's foot
Frustrable	 Capable of beeing frustrated or defeated.
Frustraneous	 Vain
Frustrate	 Vain
Frustrated	 of Frustrate
Frustrating	 of Frustrate
Frustrate	 To bring to nothing; to prevent from attaining a purpose; to disappoint; to defeat; to baffle; as, to frustrate a plan, design, or attempt; to frustrate the will or purpose.
Frustrate	 To make null; to nullifly; to render invalid or of no effect; as, to frustrate a conveyance or deed.
Frustrately	 In vain.
Frustration	 The act of frustrating; disappointment; defeat; as, the frustration of one's designs
Frustrative	 Tending to defeat
Frustratory	 Making void; rendering null; as, a frustratory appeal.
Frustule	 The siliceous shell of a diatom. It is composed of two valves, one overlapping the other, like a pill box and its cover.
Frustulent	 Abounding in fragments.
Frusta	 of Frustum
Frustums	 of Frustum
Frustum	 The part of a solid next the base, formed by cutting off the, top; or the part of any solid, as of a cone, pyramid, etc., between two planes, which may be either parallel or inclined to each other.
Frustum	 One of the drums of the shaft of a column.
Frutage	 A picture of fruit
Frutage	 A confection of fruit.
Frutescent	 Somewhat shrubby in character; imperfectly shrubby, as the American species of Wistaria.
Frutex	 A plant having a woody, durable stem, but less than a tree; a shrub.
Fruticant	 Full of shoots.
Fruticose	 Pertaining to a shrub or shrubs; branching like a shrub; shrubby; shrublike; as, a fruticose stem.
Fruticous	 Fruticose.
Fruticulose	 Like, or pertaining to, a small shrub.
Fried	 of Fry
Frying	 of Fry
Fry	 To cook in a pan or on a griddle (esp. with the use of fat, butter, or olive oil) by heating over a fire; to cook in boiling lard or fat; as, to fry fish; to fry doughnuts.
Fry	 To undergo the process of frying; to be subject to the action of heat in a frying pan, or on a griddle, or in a kettle of hot fat.
Fry	 To simmer
Fry	 To undergo or cause a disturbing action accompanied with a sensation of heat.
Fry	 To be agitated
Ery	 A dish of anything fried.
Ery	 A state of excitement; as, to be in a fry.
Fry	 The young of any fish.
Fry	 A swarm or crowd, especially of little fishes; young or small things in general.
Frying	 The process denoted by the verb fry.
Fuage	 Same as Fumage.
Fuar	 Same as Feuar.
Fub	 Alt. of Fubs
Fubs	 A plump young person or child.
Fub	 To put off by trickery
Fubbery	 Cheating
Fubby	 Alt. of Fubsy
Fubsy	 Plump
Fucate	 Alt. of Fucated
Fucated	 Painted; disguised with paint, or with false show.
Fuchs	 A student of the first year.
Fuchsias	 of Fuchsia
Fuchslae	 of Fuchsia
Fuchsia	 A genus of flowering plants having elegant drooping flowers, with four sepals, four petals, eight stamens, and a single pistil. They are natives of Mexico and South America. Double-flowered varieties are now common in cultivation.
Fuchsine	 Aniline red; an artificial coal-tar dyestuff, of a metallic green color superficially, resembling cantharides, but when dissolved forming a brilliant dark red. It consists of a hydrochloride or acetate of rosaniline. See Rosaniline.
Fucivorous	 Eating fucus or other seaweeds.
Fucoid	 Properly, belonging to an order of alga: (Fucoideae) which are blackish in color, and produce oospores which are not fertilized until they have escaped from the conceptacle. The common rockweeds and the gulfweed (Sargassum) are fucoid in character.
Fucoid	 In a vague sense, resembling seaweeds, or of the nature of seaweeds.
Fucoid	 A plant, whether recent or fossil, which resembles a seaweed. See Fucoid, a.
Fucoidal	 Fucoid.
Fucoidal	 Containing impressions of fossil fucoids or seaweeds; as, fucoidal sandstone.
Fuci	 of Fucus
Fucus	 A paint; a dye; also, false show.
Fucus	 A genus of tough, leathery seaweeds, usually of a dull brownish green color; rockweed.
Fucusol	 An oily liquid, resembling, and possibly identical with, furfurol, and obtained from fucus, and other seaweeds.
Fud	 The tail of a hare, coney, etc.
Fud	 Woolen waste, for mixing with mungo and shoddy.
Fudder	 See Fodder, a weight.
Fuddled	 of Fuddle
Fuddling	 of Fuddle
Fuddle	 To make foolish by drink
Fuddle	 To drink to excess.
Fuddler	 A drunkard.
Fudge	 A made-up story
Fudged	 of Fudge
Fudging	 of Fudge
Fudge	 To make up
Fudge	 To foist
Fudge	 wheel A tool for ornamenting the edge of a sole.
Fuegian	 Of or pertaining to Terra del Fuego.
Fuegian	 A native of Terra del Fuego.
Fuel	 Any matter used to produce heat by burning; that which feeds fire; combustible matter used for fires, as wood, coal, peat, etc.
Fuel	 Anything that serves to feed or increase passion or excitement.
Fuel	 To feed with fuel.
Fuel	 To store or furnish with fuel or firing.
Fueler	 One who, or that which, supplies fuel.
Fuero	 A code
Fuero	 A custom having the force of law.
Fuero	 A declaration by a magistrate.
Fuero	 A place where justice is administered.
Fuero	 The jurisdiction of a tribunal.
Fuff	 To puff.
Fuffy	 Light
Fuga	 A fugue.
Fugacious	 Flying, or disposed to fly; fleeing away; lasting but a short time; volatile.
Fugacious	 Fleeting
Fugaciousness	 Fugacity.
Fugacity	 The quality of being fugacious; fugaclousness; volatility; as, fugacity of spirits.
Fugacity	 Uncertainty
Fugacy	 Banishment.
Fugato	 in the gugue style, but not strictly like a fugue.
Fugato	 A composition resembling a fugue.
Fugh	 An exclamation of disgust
Fughetta	 a short, condensed fugue.
Fugitive	 Fleeing from pursuit, danger, restraint, etc., escaping, from service, duty etc.; as, a fugitive solder; a fugitive slave; a fugitive debtor.
Fugitive	 Not fixed; not durable; liable to disappear or fall away; volatile; uncertain; evanescent; liable to fade; -- applied to material and immaterial things; as, fugitive colors; a fugitive idea.
Fugitive	 One who flees from pursuit, danger, restraint, service, duty, etc.; a deserter; as, a fugitive from justice.
Fugitive	 Something hard to be caught or detained.
Fugitively	 In a fugitive manner.
Fugitiveness	 The quality or condition of being fugitive
Fugle	 To maneuver
Fuglemen	 of Fugleman
Fugleman	 A soldier especially expert and well drilled, who takes his place in front of a military company, as a guide for the others in their exercises; a file leader. He originally stood in front of the right wing.
Fugleman	 Hence, one who leads the way.
Fugue	 A polyphonic composition, developed from a given theme or themes, according to strict contrapuntal rules. The theme is first given out by one voice or part, and then, while that pursues its way, it is repeated by another at the interval of a fifth or fourth, and so on, until all the parts have answered one by one, continuing their several melodies and interweaving them in one complex progressive whole, in which the theme is often lost and reappears.
Fuguist	 A musician who composes or performs fugues.
-ful	 A suffix signifying full of, abounding with; as, boastful, harmful, woeful.
Fulahs	 Alt. of Foolahs
Foolahs	 A peculiar African race of uncertain origin, but distinct from the negro tribes, inhabiting an extensive region of Western Soudan. Their color is brown or yellowish bronze. They are Mohammedans. Called also Fellatahs, Foulahs, and Fellani. Fulah is also used adjectively; as, Fulah empire, tribes, language.
Fulbe	 Same as Fulahs.
Fuldble	 Capable of being propped up.
Fulciment	 A prop
Fulcra	 See Fulcrum.
Fulcrate	 Propped
Fulcrate	 Furnished with fulcrums.
Fulcra	 of Fulcrum
Fulcrums	 of Fulcrum
Fulcrum	 A prop or support.
Fulcrum	 That by which a lever is sustained, or about which it turns in lifting or moving a body.
Fulcrum	 An accessory organ such as a tendril, stipule, spine, and the like.
Fulcrum	 The horny inferior surface of the lingua of certain insects.
Fulcrum	 One of the small, spiniform scales found on the front edge of the dorsal and caudal fins of many ganoid fishes.
Fulcrum	 The connective tissue supporting the framework of the retina of the eye.
Fulfilled	 of Fulfill
Fulfilling	 of Fulfill
Fulfill	 To fill up
Fulfill	 To accomplish or carry into effect, as an intention, promise, or prophecy, a desire, prayer, or requirement, etc.; to complete by performance; to answer the requisitions of; to bring to pass, as a purpose or design; to effectuate.
Fulfiller	 One who fulfills.
Fulfillment	 The act of fulfilling; accomplishment; completion; as, the fulfillment of prophecy.
Fulfillment	 Execution; performance; as, the fulfillment of a promise.
Fulgency	 Brightness
Fulgent	 Exquisitely bright
Fulgently	 Dazzlingly
Fulgid	 Shining
Fulgidity	 Splendor
Fulgor	 Dazzling brightness
Fulgurant	 Lightening.
Fulgurata	 A spectro-electric tube in which the decomposition of a liquid by the passage of an electric spark is observed.
Fulgurate	 To flash as lightning.
Fulgurating	 Resembling lightning
Fulguration	 The act of lightening.
Fulguration	 The sudden brightening of a fused globule of gold or silver, when the last film of the oxide of lead or copper leaves its surface; -- also called blick.
Fulgurite	 A vitrified sand tube produced by the striking of lightning on sand; a lightning tube; also, the portion of rock surface fused by a lightning discharge.
Fulgury	 Lightning.
Fulham	 A false die.
Fuliginosity	 The condition or quality of being fuliginous
Fuliginous	 Pertaining to soot
Fuliginous	 Pertaining to smoke
Fuliginously	 In a smoky manner.
Fulimart	 Same as Foumart.
Full	 Filled up, having within its limits all that it can contain; supplied; not empty or vacant; -- said primarily of hollow vessels, and hence of anything else; as, a cup full of water; a house full of people.
Full	 Abundantly furnished or provided; sufficient in. quantity, quality, or degree; copious; plenteous; ample; adequate; as, a full meal; a full supply; a full voice; a full compensation; a house full of furniture.
Full	 Not wanting in any essential quality; complete, entire; perfect; adequate; as, a full narrative; a person of full age; a full stop; a full face; the full moon.
Full	 Sated
Full	 Having the mind filled with ideas
Full	 Having the attention, thoughts, etc., absorbed in any matter, and the feelings more or less excited by it, as, to be full of some project.
Full	 Filled with emotions.
Full	 Impregnated
Full	 Complete measure
Full	 Quite
Full	 To become full or wholly illuminated; as, the moon fulls at midnight.
Fulled	 of Full
Fulling	 of Full
Full	 To thicken by moistening, heating, and pressing, as cloth; to mill; to make compact; to scour, cleanse, and thicken in a mill.
Full	 To become fulled or thickened; as, this material fulls well.
Fullage	 The money or price paid for fulling or cleansing cloth.
Fullam	 A false die. See Fulham.
Full-blooded	 Having a full supply of blood.
Full-blooded	 Of pure blood; thoroughbred; as, a full-blooded horse.
Full-bloomed	 Like a perfect blossom.
Full-blown	 Fully expanded, as a blossom; as, a full-bloun rose.
Full-blown	 Fully distended with wind, as a sail.
Full-bottomed	 Full and large at the bottom, as wigs worn by certain civil officers in Great Britain.
Full-bottomed	 Of great capacity below the water line.
Full-butt	 With direct and violentop position
Full-drive	 With full speed.
Fuller	 One whose occupation is to full cloth.
Fuller	 A die; a half-round set hammer, used for forming grooves and spreading iron; -- called also a creaser.
Fuller	 To form a groove or channel in, by a fuller or set hammer; as, to fuller a bayonet.
Fulleries	 of Fullery
Fullery	 The place or the works where the fulling of cloth is carried on.
Full-formed	 Full in form or shape
Full-grown	 Having reached the limits of growth
Full-hearted	 Full of courage or confidence.
Full-hot	 Very fiery.
Fulling	 The process of cleansing, shrinking, and thickening cloth by moisture, heat, and pressure.
Full-manned	 Completely furnished wiith men, as a ship.
Fullmart	 See Foumart.
Fullness	 The state of being full, or of abounding; abundance; completeness.
Fullonical	 Pertaining to a fuller of cloth.
Full-orbed	 Having the orb or disk complete or fully illuminated
Full-sailed	 Having all its sails set,; hence, without restriction or reservation.
Full-winged	 Having large and strong or complete wings.
Full-winged	 Beady for flight
Fully	 In a full manner or degree; completely; entirely; without lack or defect; adequately; satisfactorily; as, to be fully persuaded of the truth of a proposition.
Fulmar	 One of several species of sea birds, of the family procellariidae, allied to the albatrosses and petrels. Among the well-known species are the arctic fulmar (Fulmarus glacialis) (called also fulmar petrel, malduck, and mollemock), and the giant fulmar (Ossifraga gigantea).
Fulminant	 Thundering
Fulminated	 of Fulminate
Fulminating	 of Fulminate
Fulminate	 To thunder; hence, to make a loud, sudden noise; to detonate; to explode with a violent report.
Fulminate	 To issue or send forth decrees or censures with the assumption of supreme authority
Fulminate	 To cause to explode.
Fulminate	 To utter or send out with denunciations or censures
Fulminate	 A salt of fulminic acid. See under Fulminic.
Fulminate	 A fulminating powder.
Fulminating	 Thundering
Fulminating	 Hurling denunciations, menaces, or censures.
Fulmination	 The act of fulminating or exploding
Fulmination	 The act of thundering forth threats or censures, as with authority.
Fulmination	 That which is fulminated or thundered forth
Fulminatory	 Thundering
Fulmine	 To thunder.
Fulmine	 To shoot
Fulmineous	 Of, or concerning thunder.
Fulmiaic	 Pertaining to fulmination; detonating; specifically (Chem.), pertaining to, derived from, or denoting, an acid, so called; as, fulminic acid.
Fulminuric	 Pertaining to fulminic and cyanuric acids, and designating an acid so called.
Falness	 See Fullness.
Fulsamic	 Fulsome.
Fulsome	 Full
Fulsome	 Offending or disgusting by overfullness, excess, or grossness; cloying; gross; nauseous; esp., offensive from excess of praise; as, fulsome flattery.
Fulsome	 Lustful; wanton; obscene; also, tending to obscenity.
Fulvid	 Fulvous.
Fulvous	 Tawny; dull yellow, with a mixture of gray and brown.
Fum	 To play upon a fiddle.
Fumacious	 Smoky; hence, fond of smoking; addicted to smoking tobacco.
Fumades	 of Fumado
Fumadoes	 of Fumado
Fumade	 Alt. of Fumado
Fumado	 A salted and smoked fish, as the pilchard.
Fumage	 Hearth money.
Fumarate	 A salt of fumaric acid.
Fumaric	 Pertaining to, or derived from, fumitory (Fumaria officinalis).
Fumarine	 An alkaloid extracted from fumitory, as a white crystalline substance.
Fumarole	 A hole or spot in a volcanic or other region, from which fumes issue.
Fumatory	 See Fumitory.
Fumbled	 of Fumble
Fumbling	 of Fumble
Fumble	 To feel or grope about
Fumble	 To grope about in perplexity; to seek awkwardly; as, to fumble for an excuse.
Fumble	 To handle much
Fumble	 To handle or manage awkwardly
Fumbler	 One who fumbles.
Fumblingly	 In the manner of one who fumbles.
Fume	 Exhalation; volatile matter (esp. noxious vapor or smoke) ascending in a dense body; smoke; vapor; reek; as, the fumes of tobacco.
Fume	 Rage or excitement which deprives the mind of self-control; as, the fumes of passion.
Fume	 Anything vaporlike, unsubstantial, or airy; idle conceit; vain imagination.
Fume	 The incense of praise
Fumed	 of Fume
Fuming	 of Fume
Fume	 To smoke; to throw off fumes, as in combustion or chemical action; to rise up, as vapor.
Fume	 To be as in a mist
Fume	 To pass off in fumes or vapors.
Fume	 To be in a rage
Fume	 To expose to the action of fumes; to treat with vapors, smoke, etc.; as, to bleach straw by fuming it with sulphur; to fill with fumes, vapors, odors, etc., as a room.
Fume	 To praise inordinately
Fume	 To throw off in vapor, or as in the form of vapor.
Fumeless	 Free from fumes.
Fumer	 One that fumes.
Fumer	 One who makes or uses perfumes.
Fumerell	 See Femerell.
Fumet	 The dung of deer.
Fumet	 Alt. of Fumette
Fumette	 The stench or high flavor of game or other meat when kept long.
Fumetere	 Fumitory.
Fumid	 Smoky
Fumidity	 Alt. of Fumidness
Fumidness	 The state of being fumid
Fumiferous	 Producing smoke.
Fumifugist	 One who, or that which, drives away smoke or fumes.
Fumify	 To subject to the action of smoke.
Fumigant	 Fuming.
Fumigated	 of Fumigate
Fumigating	 of Fumigate
Fumigate	 To apply smoke to; to expose to smoke or vapor; to purify, or free from infection, by the use of smoke or vapors.
Fumigate	 To smoke
Fumigation	 The act of fumigating, or applying smoke or vapor, as for disinfection.
Fumigation	 Vapor raised in the process of fumigating.
Fumigator	 One who, or that which, fumigates; an apparattus for fumigating.
Fumigatory	 Having the quality of purifying by smoke.
Fumlly	 Smokily
Fuming	 Producing fumes, or vapors.
Fumingly	 In a fuming manner
Famish	 Smoky
Fumishness	 Choler
Fumitez	 Fumitory.
Fumitory	 The common uame of several species of the genus Fumaria, annual herbs of the Old World, with finely dissected leaves and small flowers in dense racemes or spikes. F. officinalis is a common species, and was formerly used as an antiscorbutic.
Fummel	 A hinny.
Fumosity	 The fumes of drink.
Fumous	 Producing smoke
Fumous	 Producing fumes
Fumy	 Producing fumes
Fun	 Sport
Funambulate	 To walk or to dance on a rope.
Funambulation	 Ropedancing.
Funambulatory	 Performing like a ropedancer.
Funambulatory	 Narrow, like the walk of a ropedancer.
Funambulist	 A ropewalker or ropedancer.
Funambulo	 Alt. of Funambulus
Funambulus	 A ropewalker or ropedancer.
Function	 The act of executing or performing any duty, office, or calling; per formance.
Function	 The appropriate action of any special organ or part of an animal or vegetable organism; as, the function of the heart or the limbs; the function of leaves, sap, roots, etc.; life is the sum of the functions of the various organs and parts of the body.
Function	 The natural or assigned action of any power or faculty, as of the soul, or of the intellect; the exertion of an energy of some determinate kind.
Function	 The course of action which peculiarly pertains to any public officer in church or state
Function	 A quantity so connected with another quantity, that if any alteration be made in the latter there will be a consequent alteration in the former. Each quantity is said to be a function of the other. Thus, the circumference of a circle is a function of the diameter. If x be a symbol to which different numerical values can be assigned, such expressions as x2, 3x, Log. x, and Sin. x, are all functions of x.
Function	 Alt. of Functionate
Functionate	 To execute or perform a function
Functional	 Pertaining to, or connected with, a function or duty; official.
Functional	 Pertaining to the function of an organ or part, or to the functions in general.
Functionalize	 To assign to some function or office.
Functionally	 In a functional manner
Functionaries	 of Functionary
Functionary	 One charged with the performance of a function or office; as, a public functionary; secular functionaries.
Functionless	 Destitute of function, or of an appropriate organ. Darwin.
Fund	 An aggregation or deposit of resources from which supplies are or may be drawn for carrying on any work, or for maintaining existence.
Fund	 A stock or capital; a sum of money appropriated as the foundation of some commercial or other operation undertaken with a view to profit; that reserve by means of which expenses and credit are supported; as, the fund of a bank, commercial house, manufacturing corporation, etc.
Fund	 The stock of a national debt; public securities; evidences (stocks or bonds) of money lent to government, for which interest is paid at prescribed intervals; -- called also public funds.
Fund	 An invested sum, whose income is devoted to a specific object; as, the fund of an ecclesiastical society; a fund for the maintenance of lectures or poor students; also, money systematically collected to meet the expenses of some permanent object.
Fund	 A store laid up, from which one may draw at pleasure; a supply; a full provision of resources; as, a fund of wisdom or good sense.
Funded	 of Fund
Funding	 of Fund
Fund	 To provide and appropriate a fund or permanent revenue for the payment of the interest of; to make permanent provision of resources (as by a pledge of revenue from customs) for discharging the interest of or principal of; as, to fund government notes.
Fund	 To place in a fund, as money.
Fund	 To put into the form of bonds or stocks bearing regular interest; as, to fund the floating debt.
Fundable	 Capable of being funded, or converted into a fund; convertible into bonds.
Fundament	 Foundation.
Fundament	 The part of the body on which one sits; the buttocks; specifically (Anat.), the anus.
Fundamental	 Pertaining to the foundation or basis; serving for the foundation. Hence: Essential, as an element, principle, or law; important; original; elementary; as, a fundamental truth; a fundamental axiom.
Fundamental	 A leading or primary principle, rule, law, or article, which serves as the groundwork of a system; essential part, as, the fundamentals of the Christian faith.
Fundamentally	 Primarily
Funded	 Existing in the form of bonds bearing regular interest; as, funded debt.
Funded	 Invested in public funds; as, funded money.
Fundholder	 One who has money invested in the public funds.
Funding	 Providing a fund for the payment of the interest or principal of a debt.
Funding	 Investing in the public funds.
Funuless	 Destitute of funds.
Fundus	 The bottom or base of any hollow organ; as, the fundus of the bladder; the fundus of the eye.
Funebrial	 Pertaining to a funeral or funerals
Funebrious	 Funebrial.
Funeral	 The solemn rites used in the disposition of a dead human body, whether such disposition be by interment, burning, or otherwise; esp., the ceremony or solemnization of interment; obsequies; burial; -- formerly used in the plural.
Funeral	 The procession attending the burial of the dead
Funeral	 A funeral sermon
Funeral	 Per. taining to a funeral; used at the interment of the dead; as, funeral rites, honors, or ceremonies.
Funerate	 To bury with funeral rites.
Funeration	 The act of burying with funeral rites.
Funereal	 Suiting a funeral
Funest	 Lamentable
Fungal	 Of or pertaining to fungi.
Fungate	 A salt of fungic acid.
Funge	 A blockhead
Fungi	 See Fungus.
Fungia	 A genus of simple, stony corals; -- so called because they are usually flat and circular, with radiating plates, like the gills of a mushroom. Some of them are eighteen inches in diameter.
Fungian	 Of or pertaining to the Fungidae, a family of stony corals.
Fungian	 One of the Fungidae.
Fungibles	 Things which may be furnished or restored in kind, as distinguished from specific things; -- called also fungible things.
Fungibles	 Movable goods which may be valued by weight or measure, in contradistinction from those which must be judged of individually.
Fungic	 Pertaining to, or obtained from, mushrooms; as, fungic acid.
Fungicide	 Anything that kills fungi.
Fungiform	 Shaped like a fungus or mushroom.
Fungilliform	 Shaped like a small fungus.
Fungin	 A name formerly given to cellulose found in certain fungi and mushrooms.
Fungite	 A fossil coral resembling Fungia.
Fungivorous	 Eating fungi
Fungoid	 Like a fungus
Fungologist	 A mycologist.
Fungology	 Mycology.
Fungosity	 The quality of that which is fungous
Fungous	 Of the nature of fungi
Fungous	 Growing suddenly, but not substantial or durable.
Fungi	 of Fungus
Funguses	 of Fungus
Fungus	 Any one of the Fungi, a large and very complex group of thallophytes of low organization, -- the molds, mildews, rusts, smuts, mushrooms, toadstools, puff balls, and the allies of each.
Fungus	 A spongy, morbid growth or granulation in animal bodies, as the proud flesh of wounds.
Funic	 Funicular.
Funicle	 A small cord, ligature, or fiber.
Funicle	 The little stalk that attaches a seed to the placenta.
Funicular	 Consisting of a small cord or fiber.
Funicular	 Dependent on the tension of a cord.
Funicular	 Pertaining to a funiculus; made up of, or resembling, a funiculus, or funiculi; as, a funicular ligament.
Funiculate	 Forming a narrow ridge.
Funiculi	 of Funiculus
Funiculus	 A cord, baud, or bundle of fibers; esp., one of the small bundles of fibers, of which large nerves are made up; applied also to different bands of white matter in the brain and spinal cord.
Funiculus	 A short cord which connects the embryo of some myriapods with the amnion.
Funiculus	 In Bryozoa, an organ extending back from the stomach. See Bryozoa, and Phylactolema.
Funiliform	 Resembling a cord in toughness and flexibility, as the roots of some endogenous trees.
Funis	 A cord; specifically, the umbilical cord or navel string.
Funk	 An offensive smell
Funk	 To envelop with an offensive smell or smoke.
Funk	 To emit an offensive smell
Funk	 To be frightened, and shrink back; to flinch; as, to funk at the edge of a precipice.
Funk	 Alt. of Funking
Funking	 A shrinking back through fear.
Funky	 Pertaining to, or characterized by, great fear, or funking.
Funnel	 A vessel of the shape of an inverted hollow cone, terminating below in a pipe, and used for conveying liquids into a close vessel; a tunnel.
Funnel	 A passage or avenue for a fluid or flowing substance; specifically, a smoke flue or pipe; the iron chimney of a steamship or the like.
Funnelform	 Having the form of a funnel, or tunnel; that is, expanding gradually from the bottom upward, as the corolla of some flowers; infundibuliform.
Funny	 Droll
Funnies	 of Funny
Funny	 A clinkerbuit, narrow boat for sculling.
Fur	 The short, fine, soft hair of certain animals, growing thick on the skin, and distinguished from the hair, which is longer and coarser.
Fur	 The skins of certain wild animals with the fur; peltry; as, a cargo of furs.
Fur	 Strips of dressed skins with fur, used on garments for warmth or for ornament.
Fur	 Articles of clothing made of fur; as, a set of furs for a lady (a collar, tippet, or cape, muff, etc.).
Fur	 Any coating considered as resembling fur
Fur	 A coat of morbid matter collected on the tongue in persons affected with fever.
Fur	 The soft, downy covering on the skin of a peach.
Fur	 The deposit formed on the interior of boilers and other vessels by hard water.
Fur	 One of several patterns or diapers used as tinctures. There are nine in all, or, according to some writers, only six.
Fur	 Of or pertaining to furs; bearing or made of fur; as, a fur cap; the fur trade.
Furred	 of Fur
Furring	 of Fur
Fur	 To line, face, or cover with fur; as, furred robes.
Fur	 To cover with morbid matter, as the tongue.
Fur	 To nail small strips of board or larger scantling upon, in order to make a level surface for lathing or boarding, or to provide for a space or interval back of the plastered or boarded surface, as inside an outer wall, by way of protection against damp.
Furacious	 Given to theft
Furacity	 Addictedness to theft
Furbelow	 A plaited or gathered flounce on a woman's garment.
Furbelowed	 of Furhelow
Furbelowing	 of Furhelow
Furhelow	 To put a furbelow on
Furbished	 of Furbish
Furbishing	 of Furbish
Furbish	 To rub or scour to brightness; to clean; to burnish; as, to furbish a sword or spear.
Furbishable	 Capable of being furbished.
Furbisher	 One who furbishes; esp., a sword cutler, who finishes sword blades and similar weapons.
Furcate	 Alt. of Furcated
Furcated	 Forked; branching like a fork; as, furcate twigs.
Furcation	 A branching like a. fork.
Furciferous	 Rascally
Furcula	 A forked process
Furcular	 Shaped like a fork
Furculum	 The wishbone or merrythought of birds, formed by the united clavicles.
Furdle	 To draw up into a bundle
Furfur	 Scurf
Furfuraceous	 Made of bran
Furfuran	 A colorless, oily substance, C4H4O, obtained by distilling certain organic substances, as pine wood, salts of pyromucic acid, etc.; -- called also tetraphenol.
Furfuration	 Falling of scurf from the head
Furfurine	 A white, crystalline base, obtained indirectly from furfurol.
Furfurol	 A colorless oily liquid, C4H3O.CHO, of a pleasant odor, obtained by the distillation of bran, sugar, etc., and regarded as an aldehyde derivative of furfuran; -- called also furfural.
Furfurous	 Made of bran
Furial	 Furious
Furibundal	 Full of rage.
Furies	 See Fury, 3.
Furile	 A yellow, crystalline substance, (C4H3O)2.C2O2, obtained by the oxidation of furoin.
Furilic	 Pertaining to, or derived from, furile; as, furilic acid.
Furioso	 With great force or vigor
Furious	 Transported with passion or fury; raging; violent; as, a furious animal.
Furious	 Rushing with impetuosity; moving with violence; as, a furious stream; a furious wind or storm.
Furld	 of Furl
Furling	 of Furl
Furl	 To draw up or gather into close compass; to wrap or roll, as a sail, close to the yard, stay, or mast, or, as a flag, close to or around its staff, securing it there by a gasket or line. Totten.
Furlong	 A measure of length
Furlough	 Leave of abserice; especially, leave given to an offcer or soldier to be absent from service for a certain time; also, the document granting leave of absence.
Furloughed	 of Furlough
Furloughing	 of Furlough
Furlough	 To furnish with a furlough; to grant leave of absence to, as to an offcer or soldier.
Furmonty	 Alt. of Furmity
Furmity	 Same as Frumenty.
Furnace	 An inclosed place in which heat is produced by the combustion of fuel, as for reducing ores or melting metals, for warming a house, for baking pottery, etc.; as, an iron furnace; a hot-air furnace; a glass furnace; a boiler furnace, etc.
Furnace	 A place or time of punishment, affiction, or great trial; severe experience or discipline.
Furnace	 To throw out, or exhale, as from a furnace; also, to put into a furnace.
Furniment	 Furniture.
Furnished	 of Furnish
Furnishing	 of Furnish
Furnish	 To supply with anything necessary, useful, or appropriate; to provide; to equip; to fit out, or fit up; to adorn; as, to furnish a family with provisions; to furnish one with arms for defense; to furnish a Cable; to furnish the mind with ideas; to furnish one with knowledge or principles; to furnish an expedition or enterprise, a room or a house.
Furnish	 To offer for use; to provide (something); to give (something); to afford; as, to furnish food to the hungry: to furnish arms for defense.
Furnish	 That which is furnished as a specimen
Furnisher	 One who supplies or fits out.
Furnishment	 The act of furnishing, or of supplying furniture; also, furniture.
Furniture	 That with which anything is furnished or supplied
Furniture	 Articles used for convenience or decoration in a house or apartment, as tables, chairs, bedsteads, sofas, carpets, curtains, pictures, vases, etc.
Furniture	 The necessary appendages to anything, as to a machine, a carriage, a ship, etc.
Furniture	 The masts and rigging of a ship.
Furniture	 The mountings of a gun.
Furniture	 Builders' hardware such as locks, door and window trimmings.
Furniture	 Pieces of wood or metal of a lesser height than the type, placed around the pages or other matter in a form, and, with the quoins, serving to secure the form in its place in the chase.
Furniture	 A mixed or compound stop in an organ
Furoin	 A colorless, crystalline substance, C10H8O4, from furfurol.
Furore	 Excitement
Furrier	 A dealer in furs
Furriery	 Furs, in general.
Furriery	 The business of a furrier
Furring	 The leveling of a surface, or the preparing of an air space, by means of strips of board or of larger pieces. See Fur, v. t., 3.
Furring	 The strips thus laid on.
Furring	 Double planking of a ship's side.
Furring	 A deposit from water, as on the inside of a boiler; also, the operation of cleaning away this deposit.
Furrow	 A trench in the earth made by, or as by, a plow.
Furrow	 Any trench, channel, or groove, as in wood or metal; a wrinkle on the face; as, the furrows of age.
Furrowed	 of Furrow
Furrowing	 of Furrow
Furrow	 To cut a furrow in; to make furrows in; to plow; as, to furrow the ground or sea.
Furrow	 To mark with channels or with wrinkles.
Furrowy	 Furrowed.
Furry	 Covered with fur
Furry	 Consisting of fur; as, furry spoils.
Furry	 Resembling fur.
Further	 To a greater distance
Further	 More remote; at a greater distance; more in advance; farther; as, the further end of the field. See Farther.
Further	 Beyond; additional; as, a further reason for this opinion; nothing further to suggest.
Furthered	 of Further
Furthering	 of Further
Further	 To help forward
Furtherance	 The act of furthering or helping forward
Fartherer	 One who furthers. or helps to advance
Furthermore	 or conj. Moreover
Furthermost	 Most remote
Furthersome	 Tending to further, advance, or promote; helpful; advantageous.
Furthest	 superl. Most remote; most in advance; farthest. See Further, a.
Furthest	 At the greatest distance
Furtive	 Stolen; obtained or characterized by stealth; sly; secret; stealthy; as, a furtive look.
Furtively	 Stealthily by theft.
Furuncle	 A superficial, inflammatory tumor, suppurating with a central core; a boil.
Faruncular	 Of or pertaining to a furuncle
Fury	 A thief.
Furies	 of Fury
Fury	 Violent or extreme excitement
Fury	 Violent anger; extreme wrath; rage; -- sometimes applied to inanimate things, as the wind or storms; impetuosity; violence.
Fury	 pl. (Greek Myth.) The avenging deities, Tisiphone, Alecto, and Megaera; the Erinyes or Eumenides.
Fury	 One of the Parcae, or Fates, esp. Atropos.
Fury	 A stormy, turbulent violent woman; a hag; a vixen; a virago; a termagant.
Furze	 A thorny evergreen shrub (Ulex Europaeus), with beautiful yellow flowers, very common upon the plains and hills of Great Britain; -- called also gorse, and whin. The dwarf furze is Ulex nanus.
Furzechat	 The whinchat
Furzeling	 An English warbler (Melizophilus provincialis); -- called also furze wren, and Dartford warbler.
Furzen	 Furzy
Furzy	 bounding in, or overgrown with, furze; characterized by furze.
Fusain	 Fine charcoal of willow wood, used as a drawing implement.
Fusain	 A drawing made with it. See Charcoal, n. 2, and Charcoal drawing, under Charcoal.
Fusarole	 A molding generally placed under the echinus or quarter round of capitals in the Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian orders of architecture.
Fuscation	 A darkening
Fuscin	 A brown, nitrogenous pigment contained in the retinal epithelium; a variety of melanin.
Fuscine	 A dark-colored substance obtained from empyreumatic animal oil.
Fuscous	 Brown or grayish black
Fused	 of Fuse
Fusing	 of Fuse
Fuse	 To liquefy by heat
Fuse	 To unite or blend, as if melted together.
Fuse	 To be reduced from a solid to a Quid state by heat
Fuse	 To be blended, as if melted together.
Fuse	 A tube or casing filled with combustible matter, by means of which a charge of powder is ignited, as in blasting; -- called also fuzee. See Fuze.
Fusee	 A flintlock gun. See 2d Fusil.
Fusee	 A fuse. See Fuse, n.
Fusee	 A kind of match for lighting a pipe or cigar.
Fusee	 A small packet of explosive material with wire appendages allowing it to be conveniently attached to a railroad track. It will explode with a loud report when run over by a train, and is used to provide a warning signal to the engineer.
Fusee	 The track of a buck.
Fusee	 The cone or conical wheel of a watch or clock, designed to equalize the power of the mainspring by having the chain from the barrel which contains the spring wind in a spiral groove on the surface of the cone in such a manner that the diameter of the cone at the point where the chain acts may correspond with the degree of tension of the spring.
Fusee	 A similar wheel used in other machinery.
Fusel	 Alt. of Fusel oil
Fusel	 oil A hot, acrid, oily liquid, accompanying many alcoholic liquors (as potato whisky, corn whisky, etc.), as an undesirable ingredient, and consisting of several of the higher alcohols and compound ethers, but particularly of amyl alcohol; hence, specifically applied to amyl alcohol.
Fusibility	 The quality of being fusible.
Fusible	 CapabIe of being melted or liquefied.
Fusiform	 Shaped like a spindle; tapering at each end; as, a fusiform root; a fusiform cell.
Fusil	 Capable of being melted or rendered fluid by heat
Fusil	 Running or flowing, as a liquid.
Fusil	 Formed by melting and pouring into a mold
Fusil	 A light kind of flintlock musket, formerly in use.
Fusil	 A bearing of a rhomboidal figure; -- named from its shape, which resembles that of a spindle.
Fusile	 Same as Fusil, a.
Fusileer	 Alt. of Fusilier
Fusilier	 Formerly, a soldier armed with a fusil. Hence, in the plural:
Fusilier	 A title now borne by some regiments and companies; as, "The Royal Fusiliers," etc.
Fusillade	 A simultaneous discharge of firearms.
Fusillader	 of Fusillade
Fusillading	 of Fusillade
Fusillade	 To shoot down of shoot at by a simultaneous discharge of firearms.
Fusion	 The act or operation of melting or rendering fluid by heat; the act of melting together; as, the fusion of metals.
Fusion	 The state of being melted or dissolved by heat; a state of fluidity or flowing in consequence of heat; as, metals in fusion.
Fusion	 The union or blending together of things, as, melted together.
Fusion	 The union, or binding together, of adjacent parts or tissues.
Fusome	 Handy
Fuss	 A tumult
Fuss	 One who is unduly anxious about trifles.
Fussed	 of Fuss
Fussing	 of Fuss
Fuss	 To be overbusy or unduly anxious about trifles
Fussily	 In a fussy manner.
Fussiness	 The quality of being fussy.
Fussy	 Making a fuss
Fast	 The shaft of a column, or trunk of pilaster.
Fust	 A strong, musty smell; mustiness.
Fust	 To become moldy
Fusted	 Moldy
Fusteric	 The coloring matter of fustet.
Fustet	 The wood of the Rhus Cptinus or Venice sumach, a shrub of Southern Europe, which yields a fine orange color, which, however, is not durable without a mordant.
Fustian	 A kind of coarse twilled cotton or cotton and linen stuff, including corduroy, velveteen, etc.
Fustian	 An inflated style of writing; a kind of writing in which high-sounding words are used,' above the dignity of the thoughts or subject; bombast.
Fustian	 Made of fustian.
Fustian	 Pompous; ridiculously tumid; inflated; bombastic; as, fustian history.
Fustianist	 A writer of fustian.
Fustic	 The wood of the Maclura tinctoria, a tree growing in the West Indies, used in dyeing yellow; -- called also old fustic.
Fustigate	 To cudgel.
Fustigation	 A punishment by beating with a stick or club
Fastilarian	 A low fellow
Fustilug	 Alt. of Fustilugs
Fustilugs	 A gross, fat, unwieldy person.
Fusiness	 A fusty state or quality
Fusty	 Moldy
Fusty	 Moping.
Fussure	 Act of fusing
Futchel	 The jaws between which the hinder end of a carriage tongue is inserted.
Futile	 Talkative
Futile	 Of no importance
Futilely	 In a futile manner.
Futility	 The quality of being talkative
Futility	 The quality of producing no valuable effect, or of coming to nothing; uselessness.
Futilous	 Futile
Futtock	 One of the crooked timbers which are scarfed together to form the lower part of the compound rib of a vessel
Futurable	 Capable of being future
Future	 That is to be or come hereafter; that will exist at any time after the present; as, the next moment is future, to the present.
Future	 Time to come; time subsequent to the present (as, the future shall be as the present); collectively, events that are to happen in time to come.
Future	 The possibilities of the future; -- used especially of prospective success or advancement; as, he had great future before him.
Future	 A future tense.
Futureless	 Without prospect of betterment in the future.
Futurely	 In time to come.
Futurist	 One whose chief interests are in what is to come; one who anxiously, eagerly, or confidently looks forward to the future; an expectant.
Futurist	 One who believes or maintains that the fulfillment of the prophecies of the Bible is to be in the future.
Futuritial	 Relating to what is to come
Futurition	 The state of being future
Futurities	 of Futurity
Futurity	 State of being that is yet to come
Futurity	 Future time
Futurity	 Event to come
Fuze	 A tube, filled with combustible matter, for exploding a shell, etc. See Fuse, n.
Fuzz	 To make drunk.
Fuzz	 Fine, light particles or fibers; loose, volatile matter.
Fuzz	 To fly off in minute particles.
Fuzzle	 To make drunk
Fuzzy	 Not firmly woven
Fuzzy	 Furnished with fuzz; having fuzz; like fuzz; as, the fuzzy skin of a peach.
-fy	 A suffix signifying to make, to form into, etc.; as, acetify, amplify, dandify, Frenchify, etc.
Fy	 A word which expresses blame, dislike, disapprobation, abhorrence, or contempt. See Fie.
Fyke	 A long bag net distended by hoops, into which fish can pass easily, without being able to return; -- called also fyke net.
Fyllot	 A rebated cross, formerly used as a secret emblem, and a common ornament. It is also called gammadion, and swastika.
Fyrd	 Alt. of Fyrdung
Fyrdung	 The military force of the whole nation, consisting of all men able to bear arms.
Fytte	 See Fit a song.
