U	 the twenty-first letter of the English alphabet, is a cursive form of the letter V, with which it was formerly used interchangeably, both letters being then used both as vowels and consonants. U and V are now, however, differentiated, U being used only as a vowel or semivowel, and V only as a consonant. The true primary vowel sound of U, in Anglo-Saxon, was the sound which it still retains in most of the languages of Europe, that of long oo, as in tool, and short oo, as in wood, answering to the French ou in tour. Etymologically U is most closely related to o, y (vowel), w, and v; as in two, duet, dyad, twice; top, tuft; sop, sup; auspice, aviary. See V, also O and Y.
Uakari	 Same as Ouakari.
Uberous	 Fruitful
Uberty	 Fruitfulness
Ubication	 Alt. of Ubiety
Ubiety	 The quality or state of being in a place
Ubiquarian	 Ubiquitous.
Ubiquitist	 Alt. of Ubiquitarian
Ubiquitarian	 One of a school of Lutheran divines which held that the body of Christ is present everywhere, and especially in the eucharist, in virtue of his omnipresence. Called also ubiquitist, and ubiquitary.
Ubiquitariness	 Quality or state of being ubiquitary, or ubiquitous.
Ubiquitary	 Ubiquitous.
Ubiquitaries	 of Ubiquitary
Ubiquitary	 One who exists everywhere.
Ubiquitary	 A ubiquist.
Ubiquitist	 Same as Ubiquist.
Ubiquitous	 Existing or being everywhere, or in all places, at the same time; omnipresent.
Ubiquity	 Existence everywhere, or in places, at the same time; omnipresence; as, the ubiquity of God is not disputed by those who admit his existence.
Ubiquity	 The doctrine, as formulated by Luther, that Christ's glorified body is omnipresent.
Uchees	 A tribe of North American Indians belonging to the Creek confederation.
Uckewallist	 One of a sect of rigid Anabaptists, which originated in 1637, and whose tenets were essentially the same as those of the Mennonists. In addition, however, they held that Judas and the murderers of Christ were saved. So called from the founder of the sect, Ucke Wallis, a native of Friesland.
Udal	 In Shetland and Orkney, a freehold; property held by udal, or allodial, right.
Udal	 Allodial; -- a term used in Finland, Shetland, and Orkney. See Allodial.
Udaler	 Alt. of Udalman
Udalman	 In the Shetland and Orkney Islands, one who holds property by udal, or allodial, right.
Udder	 The glandular organ in which milk is secreted and stored
Udder	 One of the breasts of a woman.
Uddered	 Having an udder or udders.
Udderless	 Destitute or deprived of an udder.
Udderless	 Hence, without mother's milk; motherless; as, udderless lambs.
Udometer	 A rain gauge.
Ugh	 An exclamation expressive of disgust, horror, or recoil. Its utterance is usually accompanied by a shudder.
Uglesome	 Ugly.
Uglify	 To disfigure
Uglily	 In an ugly manner
Ugliness	 The quality or state of being ugly.
Ugly	 Offensive to the sight
Ugly	 Ill-natured; crossgrained; quarrelsome; as, an ugly temper; to feel ugly.
Ugly	 Unpleasant; disagreeable; likely to cause trouble or loss; as, an ugly rumor; an ugly customer.
Ugly	 A shade for the face, projecting from the bonnet.
Ugly	 To make ugly.
Ugrian	 A Mongolian race, ancestors of the Finns.
Ugsome	 Ugly
Uhlan	 One of a certain description of militia among the Tartars.
Uhlan	 One of a kind of light cavalry of Tartaric origin, first introduced into European armies in Poland. They are armed with lances, pistols, and sabers, and are employed chiefly as skirmishers.
Uintatherium	 An extinct genus of large Eocene ungulates allied to Dinoceras. This name is sometimes used for nearly all the known species of the group. See Dinoceras.
Ukase	 In Russia, a published proclamation or imperial order, having the force of law.
Ulan	 See Uhlan.
Ularburong	 A large East Indian nocturnal tree snake (Dipsas dendrophila). It is not venomous.
Ulcer	 A solution of continuity in any of the soft parts of the body, discharging purulent matter, found on a surface, especially one of the natural surfaces of the body, and originating generally in a constitutional disorder; a sore discharging pus. It is distinguished from an abscess, which has its beginning, at least, in the depth of the tissues.
Ulcer	 Fig.: Anything that festers and corrupts like an open sore
Ulcer	 To ulcerate.
Ulcerable	 Capable of ulcerating.
Ulcerated	 of Ulcerate
Ulcerating	 of Ulcerate
Ulcerate	 To be formed into an ulcer
Ulcerate	 To affect with, or as with, an ulcer or ulcers.
Ulcerated	 Affected with, or as with, an ulcer or ulcers; as, an ulcerated sore throat.
Ulceration	 The process of forming an ulcer, or of becoming ulcerous; the state of being ulcerated; also, an ulcer.
Ulcerative	 Of or pertaining to ulcers; as, an ulcerative process.
Ulcered	 Ulcerous
Ulcerous	 Having the nature or character of an ulcer
Ulcerous	 Affected with an ulcer or ulcers
Ulcuscle	 Alt. of Ulcuscule
Ulcuscule	 A little ulcer.
Ule	 A Mexican and Central American tree (Castilloa elastica and C. Markhamiana) related to the breadfruit tree. Its milky juice contains caoutchouc. Called also ule tree.
Ulema	 A college or corporation in Turkey composed of the hierarchy, namely, the imams, or ministers of religion, the muftis, or doctors of law, and the cadis, or administrators of justice.
Ulexite	 A mineral occurring in white rounded crystalline masses. It is a hydrous borate of lime and soda.
Uliginose	 Alt. of Uliginous
Uliginous	 Muddy; oozy; slimy; also, growing in muddy places.
Ullage	 The amount which a vessel, as a cask, of liquor lacks of being full; wantage; deficiency.
Ullet	 A European owl (Syrnium aluco) of a tawny color
Ullmannite	 A brittle mineral of a steel-gray color and metallic luster, containing antimony, arsenic, sulphur, and nickel.
Ulluco	 See Melluc/o.
Ulmaceous	 Of or pertaining to a suborder of urticaceous plants, of which the elm is the type.
Ulmate	 A salt of ulmic acid.
Ulmic	 Pertaining to ulmin
Ulmin	 A brown amorphous substance found in decaying vegetation. Cf. Humin.
Ulmus	 A genus of trees including the elm.
Ulna	 The postaxial bone of the forearm, or branchium, corresponding to the fibula of the hind limb. See Radius.
Ulna	 An ell; also, a yard.
Ulnage	 Measurement by the ell
Ulnar	 Of or pertaining to the ulna, or the elbow; as, the ulnar nerve.
Ulnaria	 of Ulnare
Ulnare	 One of the bones or cartilages of the carpus, which articulates with the ulna and corresponds to the cuneiform in man.
Ulodendron	 A genus of fossil trees.
Ulonata	 A division of insects nearly equivalent to the true Orthoptera.
Ulotrichan	 Of or pertaining to the Ulotrichi.
Ulotrichan	 One of the Ulotrichi.
Ulotrichi	 The division of mankind which embraces the races having woolly or crispy hair. Cf. Leiotrichi.
Ulotrichous	 Having woolly or crispy hair
Ulster	 A long, loose overcoat, worn by men and women, originally made of frieze from Ulster, Ireland.
Ulterior	 Situated beyond, or on the farther side; thither; -- correlative with hither.
Ulterior	 Further; remoter; more distant; succeeding; as, ulterior demands or propositions; ulterior views; what ulterior measures will be adopted is uncertain.
Ulterior	 Ulterior side or part.
Ulteriorly	 More distantly or remotely.
Ultima	 Most remote
Ultima	 The last syllable of a word.
Ultimate	 Farthest
Ultimate	 Last in a train of progression or consequences; tended toward by all that precedes; arrived at, as the last result; final.
Ultimate	 Incapable of further analysis; incapable of further division or separation; constituent; elemental; as, an ultimate constituent of matter.
Ultimated	 of Ultimate
Ultimating	 of Ultimate
Ultimate	 To come or bring to an end
Ultimate	 To come or bring into use or practice.
Ultimately	 As a final consequence; at last; in the end; as, afflictions often tend to correct immoral habits, and ultimately prove blessings.
Ultimation	 State of being ultimate; that which is ultimate, or final; ultimatum.
Ultimatums	 of Ultimatum
Ultimata	 of Ultimatum
Ultimatum	 A final proposition, concession, or condition; especially, the final propositions, conditions, or terms, offered by either of the parties in a diplomatic negotiation; the most favorable terms a negotiator can offer, the rejection of which usually puts an end to the hesitation.
Ultime	 Ultimate
Ultimity	 The last stage or consequence
Ultimo	 In the month immediately preceding the present; as, on the 1st ultimo; -- usually abbreviated to ult. Cf. Proximo.
Ultion	 The act of taking vengeance
Ultra-	 A prefix from the Latin ultra beyond (see Ulterior), having in composition the signification beyond, on the other side, chiefly when joined with words expressing relations of place; as, ultramarine, ultramontane, ultramundane, ultratropical, etc. In other relations it has the sense of excessively, exceedingly, beyond what is common, natural, right, or proper; as, ultraconservative; ultrademocratic, ultradespotic, ultraliberal, ultraradical, etc.
Ultra	 Going beyond others, or beyond due limit; extreme; fanatical; uncompromising; as, an ultra reformer; ultra measures.
Ultra	 One who advocates extreme measures
Ultrage	 Outrage.
Ultraism	 The principles of those who advocate extreme measures, as radical reform, and the like.
Ultraist	 One who pushes a principle or measure to extremes
Ultramarine	 Situated or being beyond the sea.
Ultramarine	 A blue pigment formerly obtained by powdering lapis lazuli, but now produced in large quantities by fusing together silica, alumina, soda, and sulphur, thus forming a glass, colored blue by the sodium polysulphides made in the fusion. Also used adjectively.
Ultramontane	 Being beyond the mountains; specifically, being beyond the Alps, in respect to the one who speaks.
Ultramontane	 One who resides beyond the mountains, especially beyond the Alps; a foreigner.
Ultramontane	 One who maintains extreme views favoring the pope's supremacy. See Ultramontanism.
Ultramontanism	 The principles of those within the Roman Catholic Church who maintain extreme views favoring the pope's supremacy; -- so used by those living north of the Alps in reference to the Italians; -- rarely used in an opposite sense, as referring to the views of those living north of the Alps and opposed to the papal claims. Cf. Gallicanism.
Ultramontanist	 One who upholds ultramontanism.
Ultramundane	 Being beyond the world, or beyond the limits of our system.
Ultrared	 Situated beyond or below the red rays; as, the ultrated rays of the spectrum, which are less refrangible than the red.
Ultratropical	 Situated beyond, or outside of, the tropics; extratropical; also, having an excessively tropical temperature; warmer than the tropics.
Ultraviolet	 Lying outside the visible spectrum at its violet end
Ultra	 vires Beyond power
Ultrazodiacal	 Outside the zodiac; being in that part of the heavens that is more than eight degrees from the ecliptic; as, ultrazodiacal planets, that is, those planets which in part of their orbits go beyond the zodiac.
Ultroneous	 Spontaneous
Ulula	 A genus of owls including the great gray owl (Ulula cinerea) of Arctic America, and other similar species. See Illust. of Owl.
Ululant	 Howling
Ululated	 of Ululate
Ululating	 of Ululate
Ululate	 To howl, as a dog or a wolf; to wail; as, ululating jackals.
Ululation	 A howling, as of a dog or wolf; a wailing.
Ulva	 A genus of thin papery bright green seaweeds including the kinds called sea lettuce.
Umbe	 About.
Umbecast	 To cast about
Umbel	 A kind of flower cluster in which the flower stalks radiate from a common point, as in the carrot and milkweed. It is simple or compound; in the latter case, each peduncle bears another little umbel, called umbellet, or umbellule.
Umbellar	 Of or pertaining to an umbel
Umbellate	 Alt. of Umbellated
Umbellated	 Bearing umbels; pertaining to an umbel; umbel-like; as, umbellate plants or flowers.
Umbellet	 A small or partial umbel
Umbellic	 Pertaining to, or obtained from, certain umbelliferous plants; as, umbellic acid.
Umbellifer	 A plant producing an umbel or umbels.
Umbelliferone	 A tasteless white crystalline substance, C9H6O3, found in the bark of a certain plant (Daphne Mezereum), and also obtained by the distillation of certain gums from the Umbelliferae, as galbanum, asafetida, etc. It is analogous to coumarin. Called also hydroxy-coumarin.
Umbelliferous	 Producing umbels.
Umbelliferous	 Of or pertaining to a natural order (Umbelliferae) of plants, of which the parsley, carrot, parsnip, and fennel are well-known examples.
Umbellularia	 A genus of deep-sea alcyonaria consisting of a cluster of large flowerlike polyps situated at the summit of a long, slender stem which stands upright in the mud, supported by a bulbous base.
Umbellule	 An umbellet.
Umber	 A brown or reddish pigment used in both oil and water colors, obtained from certain natural clays variously colored by the oxides of iron and manganese. It is commonly heated or burned before being used, and is then called burnt umber; when not heated, it is called raw umber. See Burnt umber, below.
Umber	 An umbrere.
Umber	 See Grayling, 1.
Umber	 An African wading bird (Scopus umbretta) allied to the storks and herons. It is dull dusky brown, and has a large occipital crest. Called also umbrette, umbre, and umber bird.
Umber	 Of or pertaining to umber
Umber	 To color with umber; to shade or darken; as, to umber over one's face.
Umbery	 Of or pertaining to umber; like umber; as, umbery gold.
Umbilic	 The navel
Umbilic	 An umbilicus. See Umbilicus, 5 (b).
Umbilic	 See Umbilical, 1.
Umbilical	 Of or pertaining to an umbilicus, or umbilical cord; umbilic.
Umbilical	 Pertaining to the center
Umbilicate	 Alt. of Umbilicated
Umbilicated	 Depressed in the middle, like a navel, as a flower, fruit, or leaf; navel-shaped; having an umbilicus; as, an umbilicated smallpox vesicle.
Umbilicated	 Supported by a stalk at the central point.
Umbilication	 A slight, navel-like depression, or dimpling, of the center of a rounded body; as, the umbilication of a smallpox vesicle; also, the condition of being umbilicated.
Umbilicus	 The depression, or mark, in the median line of the abdomen, which indicates the point where the umbilical cord separated from the fetus; the navel.
Umbilicus	 An ornamented or painted ball or boss fastened at each end of the stick on which manuscripts were rolled.
Umbilicus	 The hilum.
Umbilicus	 A depression or opening in the center of the base of many spiral shells.
Umbilicus	 Either one of the two apertures in the calamus of a feather.
Umbilicus	 One of foci of an ellipse, or other curve.
Umbilicus	 A point of a surface at which the curvatures of the normal sections are all equal to each other. A sphere may be osculatory to the surface in every direction at an umbilicus. Called also umbilic.
Umble	 pie A pie made of umbles. See To eat humble pie, under Humble.
Umbles	 The entrails and coarser parts of a deer; hence, sometimes, entrails, in general.
Umbones	 of Umbo
Umbos	 of Umbo
Umbo	 The boss of a shield, at or near the middle, and usually projecting, sometimes in a sharp spike.
Umbo	 A boss, or rounded elevation, or a corresponding depression, in a palate, disk, or membrane; as, the umbo in the integument of the larvae of echinoderms or in the tympanic membrane of the ear.
Umbo	 One of the lateral prominence just above the hinge of a bivalve shell.
Umbonate	 Alt. of Umbonated
Umbonated	 Having a conical or rounded projection or protuberance, like a boss.
Umbrae	 of Umbra
Umbra	 The conical shadow projected from a planet or satellite, on the side opposite to the sun, within which a spectator could see no portion of the sun's disk; -- used in contradistinction from penumbra. See Penumbra.
Umbra	 The central dark portion, or nucleus, of a sun spot.
Umbra	 The fainter part of a sun spot
Umbra	 Any one of several species of sciaenoid food fishes of the genus Umbrina, especially the Mediterranean species (U. cirrhosa), which is highly esteemed as a market fish; -- called also ombre, and umbrine.
Umbraculiferous	 Bearing something like an open umbrella.
Umbraculiform	 Having the form of anything that serves to shade, as a tree top, an umbrella, and the like; specifically (Bot.), having the form of an umbrella; umbrella-shaped.
Umbrage	 Shade; shadow; obscurity; hence, that which affords a shade, as a screen of trees or foliage.
Umbrage	 Shadowy resemblance
Umbrage	 The feeling of being overshadowed; jealousy of another, as standing in one's light or way; hence, suspicion of injury or wrong; offense; resentment.
Umbrageous	 Forming or affording a shade; shady; shaded; as, umbrageous trees or foliage.
Umbrageous	 Not easily perceived, as if from being darkened or shaded; obscure.
Umbrageous	 Feeling jealousy or umbrage; taking, or disposed to take, umbrage; suspicious.
Umbrate	 To shade
Umbratic	 Alt. of Umbratical
Umbratical	 Of or pertaining to the shade or darkness
Umbratile	 Umbratic.
Umbratious	 Suspicious
Umbre	 See Umber.
Umbrel	 An umbrella.
Umbrella	 A shade, screen, or guard, carried in the hand for sheltering the person from the rays of the sun, or from rain or snow. It is formed of silk, cotton, or other fabric, extended on strips of whalebone, steel, or other elastic material, inserted, or fastened to, a rod or stick by means of pivots or hinges, in such a way as to allow of being opened and closed with ease. See Parasol.
Umbrella	 The umbrellalike disk, or swimming bell, of a jellyfish.
Umbrella	 Any marine tectibranchiate gastropod of the genus Umbrella, having an umbrella-shaped shell; -- called also umbrella shell.
Umbrere	 Alt. of Umbriere
Umbriere	 In ancient armor, a visor, or projection like the peak of a cap, to which a face guard was sometimes attached. This was sometimes fixed, and sometimes moved freely upon the helmet and could be raised like the beaver. Called also umber, and umbril.
Umbrette	 See Umber, 4.
Umbriferous	 Casting or making a shade
Umbril	 A umbrere.
Umbrine	 See Umbra, 2.
Umbrose	 Shady
Umbrosity	 The quality or state of being umbrose
Umhofo	 An African two-horned rhinoceros (Atelodus, / Rhinoceros, simus); -- called also chukuru, and white rhinoceros.
Umlaut	 The euphonic modification of a root vowel sound by the influence of a, u, or especially i, in the syllable which formerly followed.
Umlauted	 Having the umlaut; as, umlauted vowels.
Umpirage	 The office of an umpire; the power, right, or authority of an umpire to decide.
Umpirage	 The act of umpiring
Umpire	 A person to whose sole decision a controversy or question between parties is referred; especially, one chosen to see that the rules of a game, as cricket, baseball, or the like, are strictly observed.
Umpire	 A third person, who is to decide a controversy or question submitted to arbitrators in case of their disagreement.
Umpired	 of Umpire
Umpiring	 of Umpire
Umpire	 To decide as umpire; to arbitrate; to settle, as a dispute.
Umpire	 To perform the duties of umpire in or for; as, to umpire a game.
Umpire	 To act as umpire or arbitrator.
Umpireship	 Umpirage
Umpress	 Female umpire.
Umquhile	 Some time ago
Umquhile	 Former.
Un-	 An inseparable verbal prefix or particle. It is prefixed: (a) To verbs to express the contrary, and not the simple negative, of the action of the verb to which it is prefixed; as in uncoil, undo, unfold. (b) To nouns to form verbs expressing privation of the thing, quality, or state expressed by the noun, or separation from it; as in unchild, unsex. Sometimes particles and participial adjectives formed with this prefix coincide in form with compounds of the negative prefix un- (see 2d Un-); as in undone (from undo), meaning unfastened, ruined; and undone (from 2d un- and done) meaning not done, not finished. Un- is sometimes used with an intensive force merely; as in unloose.
Un-	 An inseparable prefix, or particle, signifying not; in-; non-. In- is prefixed mostly to words of Latin origin, or else to words formed by Latin suffixes; un- is of much wider application, and is attached at will to almost any adjective, or participle used adjectively, or adverb, from which it may be desired to form a corresponding negative adjective or adverb, and is also, but less freely, prefixed to nouns. Un- sometimes has merely an intensive force; as in unmerciless, unremorseless.
Un-	 Un- is prefixed to adjectives, or to words used adjectively.
Un-	 To adjectives, to denote the absence of the quality designated by the adjective
Un-	 To past particles, or to adjectives formed after the analogy of past particles, to indicate the absence of the condition or state expressed by them
Un-	 To present particles which come from intransitive verbs, or are themselves employed as adjectives, to mark the absence of the activity, disposition, or condition implied by the participle; as, - ---- and the like.
Un-	 Those which have acquired an opposed or contrary, instead of a merely negative, meaning; as, unfriendly, ungraceful, unpalatable, unquiet, and the like; or else an intensive sense more than a prefixed not would express; as, unending, unparalleled, undisciplined, undoubted, unsafe, and the like.
Un-	 Those which have the value of independent words, inasmuch as the simple words are either not used at all, or are rarely, or at least much less frequently, used; as, unavoidable, unconscionable, undeniable, unspeakable, unprecedented, unruly, and the like; or inasmuch as they are used in a different sense from the usual meaning of the primitive, or especially in one of the significations of the latter; as, unaccountable, unalloyed, unbelieving, unpretending, unreserved, and the like; or inasmuch as they are so frequently and familiarly used that they are hardly felt to be of negative origin; as, uncertain, uneven, and the like.
Un-	 Those which are anomalous, provincial, or, for some other reason, not desirable to be used, and are so indicated; as, unpure for impure, unsatisfaction for dissatisfaction, unexpressible for inexpressible, and the like.
Un-	 Un- is prefixed to nouns to express the absence of, or the contrary of, that which the noun signifies; as, unbelief, unfaith, unhealth, unrest, untruth, and the like.
Unability	 Inability.
Unable	 Not able; not having sufficient strength, means, knowledge, skill, or the like; impotent' weak; helpless; incapable; -- now usually followed by an infinitive or an adverbial phrase; as, unable for work; unable to bear fatigue.
Unabled	 Disabled.
Unableness	 Inability.
Una	 boat The English name for a catboat
Unabridged	 Not abridged, or shortened; full; complete; entire; whole.
Unabsorbable	 Not absorbable; specifically (Physiol.), not capable of absorption; unable to pass by osmosis into the circulating blood; as, the unabsorbable portion of food.
Unacceptability	 The quality of being unacceptable
Unacceptable	 Not acceptable
Unaccessible	 Inaccessible.
Unaccomplished	 Not accomplished or performed; unfinished; also, deficient in accomplishment; unrefined.
Unaccomplishment	 The state of being unaccomplished.
Unaccountability	 The quality or state of being unaccountable.
Unaccountable	 Not accountable or responsible
Unaccountable	 Not to be accounted for
Unaccurate	 Inaccurate.
Unaccurateness	 Inaccuracy.
Unaccustomed	 Not used
Unaccustomed	 Not usual
Unacquaintance	 The quality or state of being unacquainted
Unacquainted	 Not acquainted.
Unacquainted	 Not usual
Unacquaintedness	 Unacquaintance.
Unactive	 Inactive
Unactive	 To render inactive or listless.
Unactiveness	 Inactivity.
Unadmissible	 Alt. of Unadmittable
Unadmittable	 Inadmissible.
Unadulterate	 Alt. of Unadulterated
Unadulterated	 Not adulterated
Unadvisable	 Not advisable
Unadvised	 Not prudent
Unadvised	 Done without due consideration; wanton; rash; inconsiderate; as, an unadvised proceeding.
Unaffected	 Not affected or moved
Unaffected	 Free from affectation; plain; simple; natural; real; sincere; genuine; as, unaffected sorrow.
Unafiled	 Undefiled.
Unagreeable	 Disagreeable.
Unagreeable	 Not agreeing or consistent
Unaidable	 Incapable of being aided.
Unalienable	 Inalienable; as, unalienable rights.
Unalist	 An ecclesiastical who holds but one benefice
Unallied	 Not allied; having no ally; having no connection or relation; as, unallied species or genera.
Unalloyed	 Not alloyed; not reduced by foreign admixture; unmixed; unqualified; pure; as, unalloyed metals; unalloyed happiness.
Unalmsed	 Not having received alms.
Unambiguity	 Absence of ambiguity
Unambition	 The absence of ambition.
Unamiability	 The quality or state of being unamiable
Unamiable	 Not amiable
Unanchor	 To loose from the anchor, as a ship.
Unaneled	 Not aneled
Unanimate	 Unanimous.
Unanimity	 The quality or state of being unanimous.
Unanimous	 Being of one mind; agreeing in opinion, design, or determination; consentient; not discordant or dissentient; harmonious; as, the assembly was unanimous; the members of the council were unanimous.
Unanimous	 Formed with unanimity; indicating unanimity; having the agreement and consent of all; agreed upon without the opposition or contradiction of any; as, a unanimous opinion; a unanimous vote.
Unanswerability	 The quality of being unanswerable
Unanswerable	 Not answerable; irrefutable; conclusive; decisive; as, he have an unanswerable argument.
Unanswered	 Not answered; not replied; as, an unanswered letter.
Unanswered	 Not refuted; as, an unanswered argument.
Unanswered	 Not responded to in kind; unrequited; as, unanswered affection.
Unappalled	 Not appalled
Unapparel	 To divest of clothing
Unappealable	 Not appealable; that can not be carried to a higher tribunal by appeal; as, an unappealable suit or action.
Unappealable	 Not to be appealed from
Unappliable	 Inapplicable.
Unapplicable	 Inapplicable.
Unappropriate	 Inappropriate
Unappropriate	 Not appropriated.
Unappropriate	 To take from private possession; to restore to the possession or right of all; as, to unappropriate a monopoly.
Unappropriated	 Not specially appropriate
Unappropriated	 Not granted to any person, corporation, or the like, to the exclusion of others; as, unappropriated lands.
Unappropriated	 Not granted for, or applied to, any specific purpose; as, the unappropriated moneys in the treasury.
Unapproved	 Not approved.
Unapproved	 Not proved.
Unapt	 Inapt
Unapt	 Unsuitable
Unapt	 Not accustomed and not likely
Unaquit	 Unrequited.
Unargued	 Not argued or debated.
Unargued	 Not argued against
Unargued	 Not censured.
Unarm	 To disarm.
Unarm	 To puff off, or lay down, one's arms or armor.
Unarmed	 Not armed or armored
Unarmed	 Having no hard and sharp projections, as spines, prickles, spurs, claws, etc.
Unarted	 Ignorant of the arts.
Unarted	 Not artificial
Unartful	 Lacking art or skill
Unartistic	 Inartistic.
Unascried	 Not descried.
Unaserved	 Not served.
Unassuming	 Not assuming; not bold or forward; not arrogant or presuming; humble; modest; retiring; as, an unassuming youth; unassuming manners.
Unassured	 Not assured
Unassured	 Not to be trusted.
Unassured	 Not insured against loss; as, unassured goods.
Unatonable	 Not capable of being brought into harmony
Unatonable	 Incapable of being atoned for
Unattached	 Not attached
Unattached	 Not assigned to any company or regiment.
Unattached	 Not taken or arrested.
Unattentive	 Inattentive
Unattire	 To divest of attire
Unau	 The two-toed sloth (Cholopus didactylus), native of South America. It is about two feet long. Its color is a uniform grayish brown, sometimes with a reddish tint.
Unaudienced	 Not given an audience
Unauspicious	 Inauspicious.
Unauthorize	 To disown the authority of
Unavoidable	 Not avoidable; incapable of being shunned or prevented; inevitable; necessary; as, unavoidable troubles.
Unavoidable	 Not voidable
Unavoided	 Not avoided or shunned.
Unavoided	 Unavoidable
Unaware	 Not aware
Unaware	 Unawares.
Unawares	 Without design or preparation; suddenly; without premeditation, unexpectedly.
Unbacked	 Never mounted by a rider
Unbacked	 Not supported or encouraged
Unbag	 To pour, or take, or let go, out of a bag or bags.
Unbalanced	 Not balanced; not in equipoise; having no counterpoise, or having insufficient counterpoise.
Unbalanced	 Not adjusted; not settled; not brought to an equality of debt and credit; as, an unbalanced account; unbalanced books.
Unbalanced	 Being, or being thrown, out of equilibrium; hence, disordered or deranged in sense; unsteady; unsound; as, an unbalanced mind.
Unballast	 To free from ballast
Unballast	 Not ballasted.
Unballasted	 Freed from ballast
Unballasted	 Not furnished with ballast; not kept steady by ballast; unsteady; as, unballasted vessels; unballasted wits.
Unbaned	 Wanting a band or string
Unbank	 To remove a bank from; to open by, or as if by, the removal of a bank.
Unbar	 To remove a bar or bars from; to unbolt; to open; as, to unbar a gate.
Unbarbed	 Not shaven.
Unbarbed	 Destitute of bards, or of reversed points, hairs, or plumes; as, an unbarded feather.
Unbark	 To deprive of the bark; to decorticate; to strip; as, to unbark a tree.
Unbark	 To cause to disembark
Unbarrel	 To remove or release from a barrel or barrels.
Unbarricade	 To unbolt
Unbarricadoed	 Not obstructed by barricades; open; as, unbarricadoed streets.
Unbashful	 Not bashful or modest
Unbay	 To free from the restraint of anything that surrounds or incloses
Unbe	 To cause not to be
Unbear	 To remove or loose the bearing rein of (a horse).
Unbeat	 To deliver from the form or nature of a beast.
Unbecome	 To misbecome.
Unbecoming	 Not becoming
Unbed	 To raise or rouse from bed.
Unbedinned	 Not filled with din.
Unbefool	 To deliver from the state of a fool
Unbeget	 To deprive of existence.
Unbegilt	 Not gilded; hence, not rewarded with gold.
Unbegot	 Alt. of Unbegotten
Unbegotten	 Not begot; not yet generated; also, having never been generated; self-existent; eternal.
Unbeguiled	 of Unbeguile
Unbeguiling	 of Unbeguile
Unbeguile	 To set free from the influence of guile
Unbegun	 Not yet begun; also, existing without a beginning.
Unbehovely	 Not behooving or becoming
Unbeing	 Not existing.
Unbeknown	 Not known
Unbelief	 The withholding of belief
Unbelief	 Disbelief; especially, disbelief of divine revelation, or in a divine providence or scheme of redemption.
Unbelieved	 Not believed
Unbeliever	 One who does not believe
Unbeliever	 A disbeliever; especially, one who does not believe that the Bible is a divine revelation, and holds that Christ was neither a divine nor a supernatural person; an infidel; a freethinker.
Unbelieving	 Not believing
Unbelieving	 Believing the thing alleged no to be true; disbelieving; especially, believing that Bible is not a divine revelation, or that Christ was not a divine or a supernatural person.
Unbelt	 To remove or loose the belt of
Unbent	 of Unbend
Unbending	 of Unbend
Unbend	 To free from flexure; to make, or allow to become, straight; to loosen; as, to unbend a bow.
Unbend	 A remit from a strain or from exertion; to set at ease for a time; to relax; as, to unbend the mind from study or care.
Unbend	 To unfasten, as sails, from the spars or stays to which they are attached for use.
Unbend	 To cast loose or untie, as a rope.
Unbend	 To cease to be bent
Unbend	 To relax in exertion, attention, severity, or the like; hence, to indulge in mirth or amusement.
Unbending	 Not bending
Unbending	 Unyielding in will
Unbending	 Unyielding in nature; unchangeable; fixed; -- applied to abstract ideas; as, unbending truths.
Unbending	 Devoted to relaxation or amusement.
Unbenevolence	 Absence or want of benevolence
Unbenign	 Not benign
Unbenumb	 To relieve of numbness
Unbereaven	 Unbereft.
Unbereft	 Not bereft
Unbeseem	 To be unbecoming or unsuitable to
Unbeseeming	 Unbecoming
Unbespeak	 To unsay; hence, to annul or cancel.
Unbethink	 To change the mind of (one's self).
Unbeware	 Unawares.
Unbewitch	 To free from a spell
Unbias	 To free from bias or prejudice.
Unbiased	 Free from bias or prejudice
Unbid	 Alt. of Unbidden
Unbidden	 Not bidden
Unbidden	 Uninvited; as, unbidden guests.
Unbidden	 Being without a prayer.
Unbound	 of Unbind
Unbinding	 of Unbind
Unbind	 To remove a band from; to set free from shackles or fastenings; to unite; to unfasten; to loose; as, unbind your fillets; to unbind a prisoner's arms; to unbind a load.
Unbishop	 To deprive, as a city, of a bishop; to deprive, as a clergyman, of episcopal dignity or rights.
Unbitted	 of Unbit
Unbitting	 of Unbit
Unbit	 To remove the turns of (a rope or cable) from the bits; as, to unbit a cable.
Unblemished	 Not blemished; pure; spotless; as, an unblemished reputation or life.
Unbless	 To deprive of blessings
Unblessed	 Alt. of Unblest
Unblest	 Not blest; excluded from benediction; hence, accursed; wretched.
Unblestful	 Unblessed.
Unblind	 To free from blindness
Unblindfold	 To free from that which blindfolds.
Unbloody	 Not bloody.
Unblushing	 Not blushing
Unbody	 To free from the body
Unbody	 To leave the body
Unbolt	 To remove a bolt from
Unbolt	 To explain or unfold a matter
Unbone	 To deprive of bones, as meat; to bone.
Unbone	 To twist about, as if boneless.
Unbonnet	 To take a bonnet from; to take off one's bonnet; to uncover; as, to unbonnet one's head.
Unbooked	 Not written in a book
Unboot	 To take off the boots from.
Unborn	 Not born
Unborrowed	 Not borrowed
Unbosomed	 of Unbosom
Unbosoming	 of Unbosom
Unbosom	 To disclose freely; to reveal in confidence, as secrets; to confess; -- often used reflexively; as, to unbosom one's self.
Unbosomer	 One who unbosoms, or discloses.
Unbottomed	 Deprived of a bottom.
Unbottomed	 Having no bottom
Unbound	 imp. & p. p. of Unbind.
Unboundably	 Infinitely.
Unbounded	 Having no bound or limit; as, unbounded space; an, unbounded ambition.
Unbow	 To unbend.
Unbowed	 Not bent or arched
Unboweled	 of Unbowel
Unbowelled	 of Unbowel
Unboweling	 of Unbowel
Unbowelling	 of Unbowel
Unbowel	 To deprive of the entrails
Unbox	 To remove from a box or boxes.
Unboy	 To divest of the traits of a boy.
Unbrace	 To free from tension; to relax; to loose; as, to unbrace a drum; to unbrace the nerves.
Unbraid	 To separate the strands of; to undo, as a braid; to unravel; to disentangle.
Unbreast	 To disclose, or lay open; to unbosom.
Unbreathed	 Not breathed.
Unbreathed	 Not exercised
Unbred	 Not begotten
Unbred	 Not taught or trained
Unbred	 Not well-bred
Unbreeched	 of Unbreech
Unbreching	 of Unbreech
Unbreech	 To remove the breeches of
Unbreech	 To free the breech of, as a cannon, from its fastenings or coverings.
Unbrewed	 Not made by brewing
Unbridle	 To free from the bridle
Unbridled	 Loosed from the bridle, or as from the bridle; hence, unrestrained; licentious; violent; as, unbridled passions.
Unbroken	 Not broken; continuous; unsubdued; as, an unbroken colt.
Unbuckle	 To loose the buckles of; to unfasten; as, to unbuckle a shoe.
Unbuild	 To demolish
Unbundle	 To release, as from a bundle; to disclose.
Unbung	 To remove the bung from; as, to unbung a cask.
Unburden	 To relieve from a burden.
Unburden	 To throw off, as a burden; to unload.
Unburiable	 Not ready or not proper to be buried.
Unburrow	 To force from a burrow
Unburthen	 To unburden
Unbury	 To disinter; to exhume; fig., to disclose.
Unbusied	 Not required to work
Unbutton	 To loose the buttons of
Unbuxom	 Disobedient.
Uncage	 To loose, or release, from, or as from, a cage.
Uncalled-for	 Not called for
Uncalm	 To disturb
Uncamp	 To break up the camp of
Uncanny	 Not canny
Uncanonize	 To deprive of canonical authority.
Uncanonize	 To reduce from the rank of a canonized saint.
Uncap	 To remove a cap or cover from.
Uncapable	 Incapable.
Uncape	 To remove a cap or cape from.
Uncapper	 An instrument for removing an explode cap from a cartridge shell.
Uncardinal	 To degrade from the cardinalship.
Uncared	 Not cared for
Uncarnate	 Not fleshy; specifically, not made flesh; not incarnate.
Uncarnate	 To divest of flesh.
Uncart	 To take from, or set free from, a cart; to unload.
Uncase	 To take out of a case or covering
Uncase	 To strip
Uncase	 To display, or spread to view, as a flag, or the colors of a military body.
Uncastle	 To take a castle from
Uncaused	 Having no antecedent cause
Uncautelous	 Incautious.
Uncautious	 Incautious.
Uncautiously	 Incautiously.
Unce	 A claw.
Unce	 An ounce
Unceasable	 Not capable of being ended
Uncenter	 Alt. of Uncentre
Uncentre	 To throw from its center.
Uncentury	 To remove from its actual century.
Uncertain	 Not certain
Uncertain	 Irresolute; inconsonant; variable; untrustworthy; as, an uncertain person; an uncertain breeze.
Uncertain	 Questionable
Uncertain	 Not sure
Uncertain	 To make uncertain.
Uncertainly	 In an uncertain manner.
Uncertainties	 of Uncertainty
Uncertainty	 The quality or state of being uncertain.
Uncertainty	 That which is uncertain
Uncessant	 Incessant.
Unchain	 To free from chains or slavery
Unchancy	 Happening at a bad time
Unchancy	 Ill-fated
Unchancy	 Unsafe to meddle with
Unchaplain	 To remove from a chaplaincy.
Uncharge	 To free from a charge or load
Uncharge	 To free from an accusation
Unchariot	 To throw out of a chariot.
Uncharitable	 Not charitable; contrary to charity; severe in judging; harsh; censorious; as, uncharitable opinions or zeal.
Uncharity	 Uncharitableness.
Uncharm	 To release from a charm, fascination, or secret power; to disenchant.
Uncharneled	 of Uncharnel
Uncharneling	 of Uncharnel
Uncharnel	 To remove from a charnel house
Unchaste	 Not chaste
Unchastity	 The quality or state of being unchaste
Uncheckable	 Not capable of being checked or stopped.
Unchild	 To bereave of children
Unchild	 To make unlike a child
Unchristen	 To render unchristian.
Unchristened	 Not christened; as, an unchristened child.
Unchristian	 Not Christian
Unchristian	 Contrary to Christianity; not like or becoming a Christian; as, unchristian conduct.
Unchristian	 To make unchristian.
Unchristianize	 To turn from the Christian faith
Unchristianly	 Unchristian.
Unchristianly	 In an unchristian manner.
Unchristianness	 The quality or state of being unchristian.
Unchurch	 To expel, or cause to separate, from a church; to excommunicate.
Unchurch	 To deprive of the character, privileges, and authority of a church.
Unciae	 of Uncia
Uncia	 A twelfth part, as of the Roman as; an ounce.
Uncia	 A numerical coefficient in any particular case of the binomial theorem.
Uncial	 Of, pertaining to, or designating, a certain style of letters used in ancient manuscripts, esp. in Greek and Latin manuscripts. The letters are somewhat rounded, and the upstrokes and downstrokes usually have a slight inclination. These letters were used as early as the 1st century b. c., and were seldom used after the 10th century a. d., being superseded by the cursive style.
Uncial	 An uncial letter.
Unciatim	 Ounce by ounce.
Unciform	 Having the shape of a hook
Unciform	 The unciform bone. See Illust. of Perissodactyla.
Uncinata	 A division of marine chaetopod annelids which are furnished with uncini, as the serpulas and sabellas.
Uncinate	 Hooked; bent at the tip in the form of a hook; as, an uncinate process.
Uncinatum	 The unciform bone.
Uncini	 of Uncinus
Uncinus	 One of the peculiar minute chitinous hooks found in large numbers in the tori of tubicolous annelids belonging to the Uncinata.
Uncipher	 To decipher; as, to uncipher a letter.
Uncircumcised	 Not circumcised; hence, not of the Israelites.
Uncircumcision	 The absence or want of circumcision.
Uncircumcision	 People not circumcised
Uncircumstandtial	 Not circumstantial
Uncircumstandtial	 Not important
Uncity	 To deprive of the rank or rights of a city.
Uncivil	 Not civilized
Uncivil	 Not civil; not complaisant; discourteous; impolite; rude; unpolished; as, uncivil behavior.
Uncivility	 Incivility.
Uncivilization	 The state of being uncivilized
Uncivilized	 Not civilized; not reclaimed from savage life; rude; barbarous; savage; as, the uncivilized inhabitants of Central Africa.
Uncivilized	 Not civil
Uncivilty	 In an uncivil manner.
Unclasp	 To loose the clasp of; to open, as something that is fastened, or as with, a clasp; as, to unclasp a book; to unclasp one's heart.
Uncle	 The brother of one's father or mother; also applied to an aunt's husband; -- the correlative of aunt in sex, and of nephew and niece in relationship.
Uncle	 A pawnbroker.
Unclean	 Not clean
Unclean	 Ceremonially impure
Unclean	 Morally impure.
Uncleansable	 Incapable of being cleansed or cleaned.
Unclench	 Same as Unclinch.
Uncleship	 The office or position of an uncle.
Unclew	 To unwind, unfold, or untie; hence, to undo; to ruin.
Unclinch	 To cause to be no longer clinched; to open; as, to unclinch the fist.
Uncling	 To cease from clinging or adhering.
Uncloak	 To remove a cloak or cover from
Uncloak	 To remove, or take off, one's cloak.
Unclog	 To disencumber of a clog, or of difficulties and obstructions; to free from encumbrances; to set at liberty.
Uncloister	 To release from a cloister, or from confinement or seclusion; to set free; to liberate.
Unclose	 To open; to separate the parts of; as, to unclose a letter; to unclose one's eyes.
Unclose	 To disclose
Unclosed	 Not separated by inclosures
Unclosed	 Not finished
Unclosed	 Not closed
Unclothe	 To strip of clothes or covering
Unclothed	 Divested or stripped of clothing.
Unclothed	 Not yet clothed
Uncloud	 To free from clouds; to unvail; to clear from obscurity, gloom, sorrow, or the like.
Unclue	 To unwind
Unclutch	 To open, as something closely shut.
Unclutch	 To disengage, as a clutch.
Unco	 Unknown; strange, or foreign; unusual, or surprising; distant in manner; reserved.
Unco	 In a high degree
Unco	 A strange thing or person.
Uncoach	 To detach or loose from a coach.
Uncock	 To let down the cock of, as a firearm.
Uncock	 To deprive of its cocked shape, as a hat, etc.
Uncock	 To open or spread from a cock or heap, as hay.
Uncoffle	 To release from a coffle.
Uncoif	 To deprive of the coif or cap.
Uncoil	 To unwind or open, as a coil of rope.
Uncoined	 Not coined, or minted; as, uncoined silver.
Uncoined	 Not fabricated
Uncolt	 To unhorse.
Uncombine	 To separate, as substances in combination; to release from combination or union.
Uncomeatable	 Not to be come at, or reached; inaccessible.
Uncomely	 Not comely. -- adv. In an uncomely manner.
Uncomfortable	 Feeling discomfort; uneasy; as, to be uncomfortable on account of one's position.
Uncomfortable	 Causing discomfort; disagreeable; unpleasant; as, an uncomfortable seat or situation.
Uncommon	 Not common; unusual; infrequent; rare; hence, remarkable; strange; as, an uncommon season; an uncommon degree of cold or heat; uncommon courage.
Uncomplete	 Incomplete.
Uncomprehend	 To fail to comprehend.
Uncomprehensive	 Unable to comprehend.
Uncomprehensive	 Incomprehensible.
Uncompromising	 Not admitting of compromise
Unconceivable	 Inconceivable.
Unconcern	 Want of concern
Unconcerned	 Not concerned; not anxious or solicitous; easy in mind; carelessly secure; indifferent; as, to be unconcerned at what has happened; to be unconcerned about the future.
Unconcerning	 Not interesting of affecting
Unconcernment	 The state of being unconcerned, or of having no share or concern; unconcernedness.
Unconcludent	 Alt. of Unconcluding
Unconcluding	 Inconclusive.
Unconclusive	 Inconclusive.
Unconditional	 Not conditional limited, or conditioned; made without condition; absolute; unreserved; as, an unconditional surrender.
Unconditioned	 Not conditioned or subject to conditions
Unconditioned	 Not subject to condition or limitations; infinite; absolute; hence, inconceivable; incogitable.
Unconfidence	 Absence of confidence
Uncoform	 Unlike.
Uncoformability	 The quality or state of being unconformable
Uncoformability	 Want of parallelism between one series of strata and another, especially when due to a disturbance of the position of the earlier strata before the latter were deposited.
Unconformable	 Not conformable
Unconformable	 Not conformable; not lying in a parallel position; as, unconformable strata.
Unconformist	 A nonconformist.
Unconformity	 Want of conformity
Unconformity	 Want of parallelism between strata in contact.
Unconfound	 To free from a state of confusion, or of being confounded.
Unconfounded	 Not confounded.
Uncongeal	 To thaw
Unconning	 Not knowing
Unconning	 Ignorance.
Unconquerable	 Not conquerable
Unconscionable	 Not conscionable; not conforming to reason; unreasonable; exceeding the limits of any reasonable claim or expectation; inordinate; as, an unconscionable person or demand; unconscionable size.
Unconscionable	 Not guided by, or conformed to, conscience.
Unconscious	 Not conscious; having no consciousness or power of mental perception; without cerebral appreciation; hence, not knowing or regarding; ignorant; as, an unconscious man.
Unconscious	 Not known or apprehended by consciousness; as, an unconscious cerebration.
Unconscious	 Having no knowledge by experience; -- followed by of; as, a mule unconscious of the yoke.
Unconsecrate	 To render not sacred
Unconsequential	 Inconsequential.
Unconsiderate	 Inconsiderate
Unconsidered	 Not considered or attended to
Unconsonant	 Incongruous
Unconspicuous	 Inconspicuous.
Unconstancy	 Inconstancy.
Unconstant	 Not constant
Unconstitutional	 Not constitutional; not according to, or consistent with, the terms of a constitution of government; contrary to the constitution; as, an unconstitutional law, or act of an officer.
Unconstraint	 Freedom from constraint
Unconsummate	 Not consummated
Uncontestable	 Incontestable.
Uncontinent	 Not continent
Uncontrollable	 Incapable of being controlled; ungovernable; irresistible; as, an uncontrollable temper; uncontrollable events.
Uncontrollable	 Indisputable; irrefragable; as, an uncontrollable maxim; an uncontrollable title.
Uncontroversory	 Not involving controversy.
Uncontrovertible	 Incontrovertible.
Uncontrovertibly	 Incontrovertibly.
Unconvenient	 Inconvenient.
Unconversion	 The state of being unconverted
Unconverted	 Not converted or exchanged.
Unconverted	 Not changed in opinion, or from one faith to another.
Unconverted	 Not persuaded of the truth of the Christian religion
Unconverted	 Unregenerate
Uncord	 To release from cords; to loosen the cord or cords of; to unfasten or unbind; as, to uncord a package.
Uncork	 To draw the cork from; as, to uncork a bottle.
Uncorrect	 Incorrect.
Uncorrigible	 Incorrigible
Uncorrupt	 Incorrupt.
Uncorruptible	 Incorruptible.
Uncorruption	 Incorruption.
Uncouple	 To loose, as dogs, from their couples; also, to set loose; to disconnect; to disjoin; as, to uncouple railroad cars.
Uncouple	 To roam at liberty.
Uncourtliness	 Absence of courtliness
Uncous	 Hooklike
Uncouth	 Unknown.
Uncouth	 Uncommon
Uncouth	 Unfamiliar; strange; hence, mysterious; dreadful; also, odd; awkward; boorish; as, uncouth manners.
Uncovenable	 Not covenable
Uncovenanted	 Not covenanted; not granted or entered into under a covenant, agreement, or contract.
Uncovenanted	 Not having joined in a league, or assented to a covenant or agreement, as to the Solemn League and Covenant of the Scottish people in the times of the Stuarts.
Uncovenanted	 Not having entered into relationship with God through the appointed means of grace; also, not promised or assured by the divine promises or conditions; as, uncovenanted mercies.
Uncovered	 of Uncover
Uncovering	 of Uncover
Uncover	 To take the cover from; to divest of covering; as, to uncover a box, bed, house, or the like; to uncover one's body.
Uncover	 To show openly
Uncover	 To divest of the hat or cap; to bare the head of; as, to uncover one's head; to uncover one's self.
Uncover	 To take off the hat or cap
Uncover	 To remove the covers from dishes, or the like.
Uncowl	 To divest or deprive of a cowl.
Uncreate	 To deprive of existence
Uncreate	 Uncreated
Uncreated	 Deprived of existence
Uncreated	 Not yet created; as, misery uncreated.
Uncreated	 Not existing by creation; self-existent; eternal; as, God is an uncreated being.
Uncreatedness	 The quality or state of being uncreated.
Uncredible	 Incredible.
Uncredit	 To cause to be disbelieved
Uncreditable	 Discreditable.
Uncrown	 To deprive of a crown; to take the crown from; hence, to discrown; to dethrone.
Uncrudded	 Not cruddled, or curdled.
Unction	 The act of anointing, smearing, or rubbing with an unguent, oil, or ointment, especially for medical purposes, or as a symbol of consecration; as, mercurial unction.
Unction	 That which is used for anointing; an unguent; an ointment; hence, anything soothing or lenitive.
Unction	 Divine or sanctifying grace.
Unction	 That quality in language, address, or the like, which excites emotion; especially, strong devotion; religious fervor and tenderness; sometimes, a simulated, factitious, or unnatural fervor.
Unctious	 Unctuous.
Unctuosity	 Quality or state of being unctuous.
Unctuous	 Of the nature or quality of an unguent or ointment
Unctuous	 Having a smooth, greasy feel, as certain minerals.
Unctuous	 Bland; suave; also, tender; fervid; as, an unctuous speech; sometimes, insincerely suave or fervid.
Unculpable	 Inculpable
Uncult	 Not cultivated
Unculture	 Want of culture.
Uncunning	 Ignorant.
Uncunningly	 Ignorantly.
Uncunningness	 Ignorance.
Uncurable	 Incurable.
Uncurably	 In an uncurable manner.
Uncurbable	 Not capable of being curbed.
Uncurl	 To loose from curls, or ringlets; to straighten out, as anything curled or curly.
Uncurl	 To become uncurled, or straight.
Uncurrent	 Not current. Specifically: Not passing in common payment; not receivable at par or full value; as, uncurrent notes.
Uncurse	 To free from a curse or an execration.
Uncurtain	 To remove a curtain from
Unci	 of Uncus
Uncus	 A hook or claw.
Uncustomable	 Not customable, or subject to custom duties.
Uncustomed	 Uncustomable; also, not having paid duty or customs.
Uncut	 Not cut; not separated or divided by cutting or otherwise; -- said especially of books, periodicals, and the like, when the leaves have not been separated by trimming in binding.
Uncut	 Not ground, or otherwise cut, into a certain shape; as, an uncut diamond.
Uncuth	 Unknown
Uncuth	 A stranger.
Uncypher	 See Uncipher.
Undam	 To free from a dam, mound, or other obstruction.
Undampned	 Uncondemned.
Undated	 Rising and falling in waves toward the margin, as a leaf; waved.
Undated	 Not dated; having no date; of unknown age; as, an undated letter.
Undauntable	 Incapable of being daunted
Undaunted	 Not daunted
Unde	 Waving or wavy; -- applied to ordinaries, or division lines.
Undeadly	 Not subject to death
Undeaf	 To free from deafness
Undecagon	 A figure having eleven angles and eleven sides.
Undecane	 A liquid hydrocarbon, C11H24, of the methane series, found in petroleum; -- so called from its containing eleven carbon atoms in the molecule.
Undeceive	 To cause to be no longer deceived; to free from deception, fraud, fallacy, or mistake.
Undecency	 Indecency.
Undecennary	 Occurring once in every period of eleven years
Undecennial	 Occurring or observed every eleventh year; belonging to, or continuing, a period of eleven years; undecennary; as, an undecennial festival.
Undecent	 Indecent.
Undecide	 To reverse or recant, as a previous decision.
Undecisive	 Indecisive.
Undeck	 To divest of ornaments.
Undecked	 Not decked
Undecked	 Not having a deck; as, an undecked vessel.
Undecolic	 Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C11H18O2, of the propiolic acid series, obtained indirectly from undecylenic acid as a white crystalline substance.
Undecreed	 Not decreed.
Undecreed	 Reversed or nullified by decree, as something previously decreed.
Undecyl	 The radical regarded as characteristic of undecylic acid.
Undecylenic	 Pertaining to, or designating, an acid C11H20O2, homologous with acrylic acid, and obtained as a white crystalline substance by the distillation of castor oil.
Undecylic	 Related to, derived from, or containing, undecyl; specifically, designating that member of the fatty acids which corresponds to undecane, and is obtained as a white crystalline substance, C11H22O2.
Undeeded	 Not deeded or transferred by deed; as, undeeded land.
Undeeded	 Not made famous by any great action.
Undefatigable	 Indefatigable.
Undefeasible	 Indefeasible.
Undefine	 To make indefinite
Undeify	 To degrade from the state of deity
Undeniable	 Not deniable; incapable of denial; palpably true; indisputable; obvious; as, undeniable evidence.
Undeniable	 Unobjectionable; unquestionably excellent; as, a person of undeniable connections.
Undeniably	 In an undeniable manner.
Undepartable	 Incapable of being parted
Under	 Below or lower, in place or position, with the idea of being covered; lower than; beneath; -- opposed to over; as, he stood under a tree; the carriage is under cover; a cellar extends under the whole house.
Under	 Denoting relation to some thing or person that is superior, weighs upon, oppresses, bows down, governs, directs, influences powerfully, or the like, in a relation of subjection, subordination, obligation, liability, or the like; as, to travel under a heavy load; to live under extreme oppression; to have fortitude under the evils of life; to have patience under pain, or under misfortunes; to behave like a Christian under reproaches and injuries; under the pains and penalties of the law; the condition under which one enters upon an office; under the necessity of obeying the laws; under vows of chastity.
Under	 Denoting relation to something that exceeds in rank or degree, in number, size, weight, age, or the like; in a relation of the less to the greater, of inferiority, or of falling short.
Under	 Denoting relation to something that comprehends or includes, that represents or designates, that furnishes a cover, pretext, pretense, or the like; as, he betrayed him under the guise of friendship; Morpheus is represented under the figure of a boy asleep.
Under	 Less specifically, denoting the relation of being subject, of undergoing regard, treatment, or the like; as, a bill under discussion.
Under	 In a lower, subject, or subordinate condition; in subjection; -- used chiefly in a few idiomatic phrases; as, to bring under, to reduce to subjection; to subdue; to keep under, to keep in subjection; to control; to go under, to be unsuccessful; to fail.
Under	 Lower in position, intensity, rank, or degree; subject; subordinate; -- generally in composition with a noun, and written with or without the hyphen; as, an undercurrent; undertone; underdose; under-garment; underofficer; undersheriff.
Underact	 To perform inefficiently, as a play; to act feebly.
Underaction	 Subordinate action
Underactor	 A subordinate actor.
Under-age	 Not having arrived at adult age, or at years of discretion; hence, raw; green; immature; boyish; childish.
Underagent	 A subordinate agent.
Underaid	 To aid clandestinely.
Under-arm	 Done (as bowling) with the arm not raised above the elbow, that is, not swung far out from the body; underhand. Cf. Over-arm and Round-Arm.
Underback	 A vessel which receives the wort as it flows from the mashing tub.
Underbear	 To support
Underbear	 To line; to guard; to face; as, cloth of gold underborne with blue tinsel.
Underbearer	 One who supports or sustains; especially, at a funeral, one of those who bear the copse, as distinguished from a bearer, or pallbearer, who helps to hold up the pall.
Underbid	 To bid less than, as when a contract or service is offered to the lowest bidder; to offer to contract, sell, or do for a less price than.
Underbind	 To bind beneath.
Underboard	 Under the board, or table; hence, secretly; unfairly; underhand. See the Note under Aboveboard.
Underbrace	 To brace, fasten, or bind underneath or below.
Underbranch	 A lower branch.
Underbranch	 A twig or branchlet.
Underbred	 Not thoroughly bred; ill-bred; as, an underbred fellow.
Underbrush	 Shrubs, small trees, and the like, in a wood or forest, growing beneath large trees; undergrowth.
Underbuilder	 A subordinate or assistant builder.
Underbuilding	 Same as Substruction.
Underbuy	 To buy at less than the real value or worth
Undercast	 To cast under or beneath.
Underchamberlain	 A deputy chamberlain of the exchequer.
Underchanter	 Same as Subchanter.
Underchaps	 The lower chaps or jaw.
Undercharge	 To charge below or under; to charge less than is usual or suitable fro; as, to undercharge goods or services.
Undercharge	 To put too small a charge into; as, to undercharge a gun.
Undercharge	 A charge that is less than is usual or suitable.
Underclay	 A stratum of clay lying beneath a coal bed, often containing the roots of coal plants, especially the Stigmaria.
Undercliff	 A subordinate cliff on a shore, consisting of material that has fallen from the higher cliff above.
Underclothes	 Clothes worn under others, especially those worn next the skin for warmth.
Underclothing	 Same as Underclothes.
Undercoat	 A coat worn under another; a light coat, as distinguished from an overcoat, or a greatcoat.
Undercoat	 A growth of short hair or fur partially concealed by a longer growth; as, a dog's undercoat.
Underconduct	 A lower conduit
Underconsumption	 Consumption of less than is produced
Undercraft	 A sly trick or device; as, an undercraft of authors.
Undercreep	 To creep secretly or privily.
Undercrest	 To support as a crest
Undercroft	 A subterranean room of any kind; esp., one under a church (see Crypt), or one used as a chapel or for any sacred purpose.
Undercry	 To cry aloud.
Undercurrent	 A current below the surface of water, sometimes flowing in a contrary direction to that on the surface.
Undercurrent	 Hence, figuratively, a tendency of feeling, opinion, or the like, in a direction contrary to what is publicly shown; an unseen influence or tendency; as, a strong undercurrent of sentiment in favor of a prisoner.
Undercurrent	 Running beneath the surface
Undercut	 The lower or under side of a sirloin of beef
Undercut	 To cut away, as the side of an object, so as to leave an overhanging portion.
Underdealing	 Crafty, unfair, or underhand dealing; unfair practice; trickery.
Underdelve	 To delve under.
Underdig	 To dig under or beneath
Underditch	 To dig an underground ditches in, so as to drain the surface; to underdrain; as, to underditch a field or a farm.
Underdo	 To do less than is requisite or proper
Underdo	 To do less thoroughly than is requisite; specifically, to cook insufficiently; as, to underdo the meat; -- opposed to overdo.
Underdoer	 One who underdoes
Underdolven	 p. p. of Underdelve.
Underdose	 A dose which is less than required
Underdose	 To give an underdose or underdoses to
Underdrain	 An underground drain or trench with openings through which the water may percolate from the soil or ground above.
Underdrain	 To drain by forming an underdrain or underdrains in; as, to underdrain land.
Underdressed	 Not dresses enough.
Underestimate	 To set to/ low a value on
Underestimate	 The act of underestimating
Underfaction	 A subordinate party or faction.
Underfaculty	 An inferior or subordinate faculty.
Underfarmer	 An assistant farmer.
Underfeed	 To feed with too little food
Underfellow	 An underling // mean, low fellow.
Underfilling	 The filling below or beneath
Underfollow	 To follow closely or immediately after.
Underfong	 To undertake
Underfong	 To insnare
Underfong	 To sustain
Underfoot	 Under the feet; underneath; below. See Under foot, under Foot, n.
Underfoot	 Low
Underfringe	 A lower fringe
Underfurnish	 To supply with less than enough
Underfurrow	 To cover as under a furrow; to plow in; as, to underfurrow seed or manure.
Under-garment	 A garment worn below another.
Underget	 To get under or beneath; also, to understand.
Undergird	 To blind below
Underglaze	 Applied under the glaze, that is, before the glaze, that is, before the glaze is put on; fitted to be so applied; -- said of colors in porcelain painting.
Underwent	 of Undergo
Undergone	 of Undergo
Undergoing	 of Undergo
Undergo	 To go or move below or under.
Undergo	 To be subjected to; to bear up against; to pass through; to endure; to suffer; to sustain; as, to undergo toil and fatigue; to undergo pain, grief, or anxiety; to undergothe operation of amputation; food in the stomach undergoes the process of digestion.
Undergo	 To be the bearer of
Undergo	 To undertake
Undergo	 To be subject or amenable to
Undergod	 A lower or inferio/ god
Undergore	 To gore underneath.
Undergown	 A gown worn under another, or under some other article of dress.
Undergraduate	 A member of a university or a college who has not taken his first degree
Undergraduate	 Of or pertaining to an undergraduate, or the body of undergraduates.
Undergraduateship	 The position or condition of an undergraduate.
Undergroan	 To groan beneath.
Underground	 The place or space beneath the surface of the ground
Underground	 Being below the surface of the ground; as, an underground story or apartment.
Underground	 Done or occurring out of sight
Underground	 Beneath the surface of the earth.
Undergrove	 A grove of shrubs or low trees under taller ones.
Undergrow	 To grow to an inferior, or less than the usual, size or height.
Undergrow	 Undergrown.
Undergrown	 Of small stature
Undergrowth	 That which grows under trees; specifically, shrubs or small trees growing among large trees.
Undergrub	 To undermine.
Underhand	 Secret; clandestine; hence, mean; unfair; fraudulent.
Underhand	 Done, as pitching, with the hand lower than the shoulder, or, as bowling, with the hand lower than elbow.
Underhand	 By secret means; in a clandestine manner; hence, by fraud; unfairly.
Underhand	 In an underhand manner
Underhanded	 Underhand
Underhanded	 Insufficiently provided with hands or workers
Underhandedly	 In an underhand manner.
Underhang	 To hang under or down
Underhangman	 An assistant or deputy hangman.
Underhead	 A blockhead, or stupid person; a dunderhead.
Underheave	 To heave or lift from below.
Underhew	 To hew less than is usual or proper; specifically, to hew, as a piece of timber which should be square, in such a manner that it appears to contain a greater number of cubic feet than it really does contain.
Underhonest	 Not entirely honest.
Underhung	 Resting on a track at the bottom, instead of being suspended; -- said of a sliding door.
Underhung	 Having the lower jaw projecting.
Underjaw	 The lower jaw.
Underjoin	 To join below or beneath
Underkeep	 To keep under, or in subjection; to suppress.
Underkeeper	 A subordinate keeper or guardian.
Underkind	 An inferior kind.
Underkingdom	 A subordinate or dependent kingdom.
Underlaborer	 An assistant or subordinate laborer.
Underlaid	 Laid or placed underneath; also, having something laid or lying underneath.
Underlay	 To lay beneath
Underlay	 To raise or support by something laid under; as, to underlay a cut, plate, or the like, for printing. See Underlay, n., 2.
Underlay	 To put a tap on (a shoe).
Underlay	 To incline from the vertical; to hade; -- said of a vein, fault, or lode.
Underlay	 The inclination of a vein, fault, or lode from the vertical; a hade; -- called also underlie.
Underlay	 A thickness of paper, pasteboard, or the like, placed under a cut, or stereotype plate, or under type, in the from, to bring it, or any part of it, to the proper height; also, something placed back of a part of the tympan, so as to secure the right impression.
Underlayer	 One who, or that which, underlays or is underlaid; a lower layer.
Underlayer	 A perpendicular shaft sunk to cut the lode at any required depth.
Underleaf	 A prolific sort of apple, good for cider.
Underlease	 A lease granted by a tenant or lessee; especially, a lease granted by one who is himself a lessee for years, for any fewer or less number of years than he himself holds; a sublease.
Underlet	 To let below the value.
Underlet	 To let or lease at second hand
Underletter	 A tenant or lessee who grants a lease to another.
Underlie	 To lie under; to rest beneath; to be situated under; as, a stratum of clay underlies the surface gravel.
Underlie	 To be at the basis of; to form the foundation of; to support; as, a doctrine underlying a theory.
Underlie	 To be subject or amenable to.
Underlie	 To lie below or under.
Underlie	 See Underlay, n., 1.
Underline	 To mark a line below, as words; to underscore.
Underline	 To influence secretly.
Underling	 An inferior person or agent; a subordinate; hence, a mean, sorry fellow.
Underlip	 The lower lip.
Underlock	 A lock of wool hanging under the belly of a sheep.
Underlocker	 A person who inspects a mine daily
Underlying	 Lying under or beneath; hence, fundamental; as, the underlying strata of a locality; underlying principles.
Undermanned	 Insufficiently furnished with men
Undermasted	 Having masts smaller than the usual dimension
Undermaster	 A master subordinate to the principal master
Undermatch	 One who is not a match for another.
Undermeal	 The inferior, or after, part of the day; the afternoon.
Undermeal	 Hence, something occurring or done in the afternoon; esp., an afternoon meal; supper; also, an afternoon nap; a siesta.
Undermine	 To excavate the earth beneath, or the part of, especially for the purpose of causing to fall or be overthrown; to form a mine under; to sap; as, to undermine a wall.
Undermine	 Fig.: To remove the foundation or support of by clandestine means; to ruin in an underhand way; as, to undermine reputation; to undermine the constitution of the state.
Underminer	 One who undermines.
Underminister	 To serve, or minister to, in a subordinate relation.
Underministry	 A subordinate or inferior ministry.
Undermirth	 Suppressed or concealed mirth.
Undermoneyed	 Bribed.
Undermost	 Lowest, as in place, rank, or condition.
Undern	 The time between; the time between sunrise and noon; specifically, the third hour of the day, or nine o'clock in the morning, according to ancient reckoning; hence, mealtime, because formerly the principal meal was eaten at that hour; also, later, the afternoon; the time between dinner and supper.
Underneath	 Beneath; below; in a lower place; under; as, a channel underneath the soil.
Underneath	 Under
Underniceness	 A want of niceness
Undernom	 of Undernime
Undernime	 To receive
Undernime	 To reprove
Underofficer	 A subordinate officer.
Underpart	 A subordinate part.
Underpay	 To pay inadequately.
Underpeep	 To peep under.
Underpeer	 To peer under.
Underpeopled	 Not fully peopled.
Underpight	 imp. of Underpitch.
Underpinned	 of Underpin
Underpinning	 of Underpin
Underpin	 To lay stones, masonry, etc., under, as the sills of a building, on which it is to rest.
Underpin	 To support by some solid foundation
Underpinning	 The act of one who underpins; the act of supporting by stones, masonry, or the like.
Underpinning	 That by which a building is underpinned; the material and construction used for support, introduced beneath a wall already constructed.
Underpinning	 The foundation, esp. of a frame house.
Underpight	 of Underpitch
Underpitch	 To fill underneath
Underplay	 To play in a subordinate, or in an inferior manner; to underact a part.
Underplay	 To play a low card when holding a high one, in the hope of a future advantage.
Underplay	 The act of underplaying.
Underplot	 A series of events in a play, proceeding collaterally with the main story, and subservient to it.
Underplot	 A clandestine scheme
Underpoise	 To weigh, estimate, or rate below desert; to undervalue.
Underpossessor	 One who possesses or holds anything subject to the superior of another.
Underpraise	 To praise below desert.
Underprize	 To undervalue
Underproduction	 The production of less than is demanded or of less than the usual supply.
Underproof	 Containing less alcohol than proof spirit. See Proof spirit, under Spirit.
Underprop	 To prop from beneath
Underproportioned	 Of inadequate or inferior proportions
Underproper	 One who, or that which, underprops or supports.
Underpull	 To exert one's influence secretly.
Underpuller	 One who underpulls.
Underput	 To put or send under.
Underrate	 To rate too low
Underrate	 A price less than the value; as, to sell a thing at an underrate.
Underreckon	 To reckon below what is right or proper
Underrun	 To run or pass under; especially (Naut.), to pass along and under, as a cable, for the purpose of taking it in, or of examining it.
Undersail	 To sail alongshore.
Undersailed	 Inadequately equipped with sails.
Undersaturated	 Not fully saturated
Undersay	 To say by way of derogation or contradiction.
Underscore	 To draw a mark or line under
Undersecretary	 A secretary who is subordinate to the chief secretary; an assistant secretary; as, an undersecretary of the Treasury.
Undersell	 To sell the same articles at a lower price than
Underservant	 An inferior servant.
Underset	 To prop or support.
Underset	 Undercurrent.
Undersetter	 One who, or that which, undersets or supports; a prop; a support; a pedestal.
Undersetting	 Something set or built under as a support
Undershapen	 Under the usual shape or size
Undersheriff	 A sheriff's deputy.
Undersheriffry	 Undershrievalty.
Undershirt	 A shirt worn next the skin, under another shirt; -- called also undervest.
Undershoot	 To shoot short of (a mark).
Undershot	 Having the lower incisor teeth projecting beyond the upper ones, as in the bulldog.
Undershot	 Moved by water passing beneath; -- said of a water wheel, and opposed to overshot; as, an undershot wheel.
Undershrievalty	 The office or position of an undersheriff.
Undershrieve	 A low shrub
Undershrub	 Partly shrublike.
Undershut	 Closed from beneath.
Underside	 The lower or lowest side of anything.
Undersign	 To write one's name at the foot or end of, as a letter or any legal instrument.
Undersized	 Of a size less than is common.
Underskinker	 Undertapster.
Underskirt	 A petticoat
Undersky	 The lower region of the sky.
Undersleeve	 A sleeve of an under-garment; a sleeve worn under another,
Undersoil	 The soil beneath the surface
Undersold	 p. p. of Undersell.
Undersong	 The burden of a song
Undersong	 Accompanying strain
Undersparred	 Having spars smaller than the usual dimension
Underspend	 To spend less than.
Undersphere	 A sphere which is smaller than, and in its movements subject to, another; a satellite.
Undersphere	 An inferior sphere, or field of action.
Underspore	 To raise with a spar, or piece of wood, used as a lever.
Understair	 Of or pertaining to the kitchen, or the servants' quarters; hence, subordinate; menial.
Understairs	 The basement or cellar.
Understood	 of Understand
Understanded	 of Understand
Understanding	 of Understand
Understand	 To have just and adequate ideas of; to apprehended the meaning or intention of; to have knowledge of; to comprehend; to know; as, to understand a problem in Euclid; to understand a proposition or a declaration; the court understands the advocate or his argument; to understand the sacred oracles; to understand a nod or a wink.
Understand	 To be apprised, or have information, of; to learn; to be informed of; to hear; as, I understand that Congress has passed the bill.
Understand	 To recognize or hold as being or signifying
Understand	 To mean without expressing
Understand	 To stand under
Understand	 To have the use of the intellectual faculties
Understand	 To be informed
Understandable	 Capable of being understood
Understander	 One who understands, or knows by experience.
Understanding	 Knowing; intelligent; skillful; as, he is an understanding man.
Understanding	 The act of one who understands a thing, in any sense of the verb; knowledge; discernment; comprehension; interpretation; explanation.
Understanding	 An agreement of opinion or feeling; adjustment of differences; harmony; anything mutually understood or agreed upon; as, to come to an understanding with another.
Understanding	 The power to understand; the intellectual faculty; the intelligence; the rational powers collectively conceived an designated; the higher capacities of the intellect; the power to distinguish truth from falsehood, and to adapt means to ends.
Understanding	 Specifically, the discursive faculty; the faculty of knowing by the medium or use of general conceptions or relations. In this sense it is contrasted with, and distinguished from, the reason.
Understandingly	 In an understanding manner; intelligibly; with full knowledge or comprehension; intelligently; as, to vote upon a question understandingly; to act or judge understandingly.
Understate	 To state or represent less strongly than may be done truthfully.
Understatement	 The act of understating, or the condition of being understated; that which is understated; a statement below the truth.
Understock	 To supply insufficiently with stock.
Understood	 imp. & p. p. of Understand.
Understrapper	 A petty fellow
Understrapping	 Becoming an understrapper
Understrata	 of Understratum
Understratums	 of Understratum
Understratum	 The layer, or stratum, of earth on which the mold, or soil, rests; subsoil.
Understroke	 To underline or underscore.
Understudy	 To study, as another actor's part, in order to be his substitute in an emergency; to study another actor's part.
Understudy	 One who studies another's part with a view to assuming it in an emergency.
Undersuit	 A suit worn under another suit
Undertakable	 Capable of being undertaken
Undertook	 of Undertake
Undertaken	 of Undertake
Undertaking	 of Undertake
Undertake	 To take upon one's self
Undertake	 Specifically, to take upon one's self solemnly or expressly; to lay one's self under obligation, or to enter into stipulations, to perform or to execute; to covenant; to contract.
Undertake	 Hence, to guarantee; to promise; to affirm.
Undertake	 To assume, as a character.
Undertake	 To engage with
Undertake	 To have knowledge of
Undertake	 To take or have the charge of.
Undertake	 To take upon one's self, or assume, any business, duty, or province.
Undertake	 To venture
Undertake	 To give a promise or guarantee
Undertaker	 One who undertakes
Undertaker	 One who stipulates or covenants to perform any work for another
Undertaker	 Specifically, one who takes the charge and management of funerals.
Undertaking	 The act of one who undertakes, or engages in, any project or business.
Undertaking	 That which is undertaken; any business, work, or project which a person engages in, or attempts to perform; an enterprise.
Undertaking	 Specifically, the business of an undertaker, or the management of funerals.
Undertaking	 A promise or pledge
Undertapster	 Assistant to a tapster.
Undertaxed	 Taxed too little, or at a lower rate than others.
Undertenancy	 Tenancy or tenure under a tenant or lessee
Undertenant	 The tenant of a tenant
Underthing	 Something that is inferior and of little worth.
Undertide	 Alt. of Undertime
Undertime	 The under or after part of the day
Undertone	 A low or subdued tone or utterance
Undertook	 imp. of Undertake.
Undertow	 The current that sets seaward near the bottom when waves are breaking upon the shore.
Undertreasurer	 An assistant treasurer.
Underturn	 To turn upside down
Undervaluation	 The act of undervaluing
Undervalue	 To value, rate, or estimate below the real worth; to depreciate.
Undervalue	 To esteem lightly
Undervalue	 A low rate or price
Undervaluer	 One who undervalues.
Underverse	 The lower or second verse.
Undervest	 An undershirt.
Underviewer	 See Underlooker.
Underwear	 That which is worn under the outside clothing
Underween	 To undervalue.
Underwent	 imp. of Undergo.
Underwing	 One of the posterior wings of an insect.
Underwing	 Any one of numerous species of noctuid moths belonging to Catocala and allied genera, in which the hind wings are banded with red and black or other conspicuous colors. Many of the species are called red underwing.
Underwitted	 Weak in intellect
Underwood	 Small trees and bushes that grow among large trees
Underworked	 of Underwork
Underwrought	 of Underwork
Underworking	 of Underwork
Underwork	 To injure by working secretly
Underwork	 To expend too little work upon; as, to underwork a painting.
Underwork	 To do like work at a less price than; as, one mason may underwork another.
Underwork	 To work or operate in secret or clandestinely.
Underwork	 To do less work than is proper or suitable.
Underwork	 To do work for a less price than current rates.
Underwork	 Inferior or subordinate work
Underworker	 One who underworks.
Underworker	 An inferior or subordinate workman.
Underworld	 The lower of inferior world
Underworld	 The mythological place of departed souls
Underworld	 The portion of the world which is below the horizon
Underworld	 The inferior part of mankind.
Underwrote	 of Underwrite
Underwrit	 of Underwrite
Underwritten	 of Underwrite
Underwrit	 of Underwrite
Underwriting	 of Underwrite
Underwrite	 To write under something else
Underwrite	 To subscribe one's name to for insurance, especially for marine insurance; to write one's name under, or set one's name to, as a policy of insurance, for the purpose of becoming answerable for loss or damage, on consideration of receiving a certain premium per cent; as, individuals, as well as companies, may underwrite policies of insurance.
Underwrite	 To practice the business of insuring
Underwriter	 One who underwrites his name to the conditions of an insurance policy, especially of a marine policy; an insurer.
Underwriting	 The business of an underwriter,
Underyoke	 To subject to the yoke
Undeserve	 To fail to deserve.
Undeserver	 One of no merit
Undesigning	 Having no artful, ulterior, or fraudulent purpose; sincere; artless; simple.
Undestroyable	 Indestructible.
Undeterminable	 Not determinable
Undeterminate	 Nor determinate
Undetermination	 Indetermination.
Undevil	 To free from possession by a devil or evil spirit
Undevotion	 Absence or want of devotion.
Undid	 imp. of Undo.
Undifferentiated	 Not differentiated; specifically (Biol.), homogenous, or nearly so; -- said especially of young or embryonic tissues which have not yet undergone differentiation (see Differentiation, 3), that is, which show no visible separation into their different structural parts.
Undigenous	 Generated by water.
Undigestible	 Indigestible.
Undight	 To put off; to lay aside, as a garment.
Undigne	 Unworthy.
Undine	 One of a class of fabled female water spirits who might receive a human soul by intermarrying with a mortal.
Undiocesed	 Unprovided with a diocese
Undirect	 To misdirect
Undirect	 Indirect.
Undirected	 Not directed
Undirected	 Not addressed; not superscribed, as a letter.
Undirected	 Misdirected
Undirectly	 Indirectly.
Undiscerning	 Want of discernment.
Undisclose	 To keep close or secret.
Undiscreet	 Indiscreet.
Undispensable	 Indispensable.
Undispensable	 Unavoidable
Undispensable	 Not to be freed by dispensation.
Undispensed	 Not dispensed.
Undispensed	 Not freed by dispensation.
Undisposedness	 Indisposition
Undisputable	 Indisputable.
Undistinctive	 Making no distinctions
Undistinctly	 Indistinctly.
Undivided	 Not divided; not separated or disunited; unbroken; whole; continuous; as, plains undivided by rivers or mountains.
Undivided	 Not set off, as a share in a firm; not made actually separate by division; as, a partner, owning one half in a firm, is said to own an undivided half so long as the business continues and his share is not set off to him.
Undivided	 Not directed or given to more than one object; as, undivided attention or affection.
Undivided	 Not lobed, cleft, or branched; entire.
Undividual	 Indivisible.
Undivisible	 Indivisible.
Undo	 To reverse, as what has been done; to annul; to bring to naught.
Undo	 To loose; to open; to take to piece; to unfasten; to untie; hence, to unravel; to solve; as, to undo a knot; to undo a puzzling question; to undo a riddle.
Undo	 To bring to poverty; to impoverish; to ruin, as in reputation, morals, hopes, or the like; as, many are undone by unavoidable losses, but more undo themselves by vices and dissipation, or by indolence.
Undock	 To take out of dock; as, to undock a ship.
Undoer	 One who undoes anything; especially, one who ruins another.
Undoing	 The reversal of what has been done.
Undoing	 Ruin.
Undomesticate	 To make wild or roving.
Undone	 p. p. of Undo.
Undone	 Not done or performed
Undouble	 To unfold, or render single.
Undoubtable	 Indubitable.
Undoubted	 Not doubted; not called in question; indubitable; indisputable; as, undoubted proof; undoubted hero.
Undrape	 To strip of drapery
Undraw	 To draw aside or open
Undreamed	 Alt. of Undreamt
Undreamt	 Not dreamed, or dreamed of; not th/ught of; not imagined; -- often followed by of.
Undress	 To divest of clothes
Undress	 To divest of ornaments to disrobe.
Undress	 To take the dressing, or covering, from; as, to undress a wound.
Undress	 A loose, negligent dress; ordinary dress, as distinguished from full dress.
Undress	 An authorized habitual dress of officers and soldiers, but not full-dress uniform.
Undubitable	 Indubitable; as, an undubitable principle.
Undue	 Not due; not yet owing; as, an undue debt, note, or bond.
Undue	 Not right; not lawful or legal; improper; as, an undue proceeding.
Undue	 Not agreeable to a rule or standard, or to duty; disproportioned; excessive; immoderate; inordinate; as, an undue attachment to forms; an undue rigor in the execution of law.
Undueness	 The quality of being undue.
Unduke	 To deprive of dukedom.
Undulant	 Undulating.
Undulary	 Moving like waves
Undulate	 Same as Undulated.
Undulated	 of Undulate
Undulating	 of Undulate
Undulate	 To cause to move backward and forward, or up and down, in undulations or waves; to cause to vibrate.
Undulate	 To move in, or have, undulations or waves; to vibrate; to wave; as, undulating air.
Undulated	 Resembling, or in the nature of, waves; having a wavy surface; undulatory.
Undulated	 Waved obtusely up and down, near the margin, as a leaf or corolla; wavy.
Undulated	 Formed with elevations and depressions resembling waves; having wavelike color markings; as, an undulated shell.
Undulating	 Rising and falling like waves; resembling wave form or motion; undulatory; rolling; wavy; as, an undulating medium; undulating ground.
Undulation	 The act of undulating; a waving motion or vibration; as, the undulations of a fluid, of water, or of air; the undulations of sound.
Undulation	 A wavy appearance or outline
Undulation	 The tremulous tone produced by a peculiar pressure of the finger on a string, as of a violin.
Undulation	 The pulsation caused by the vibrating together of two tones not quite in unison
Undulation	 A motion to and fro, up and down, or from side to side, in any fluid or elastic medium, propagated continuously among its particles, but with no translation of the particles themselves in the direction of the propagation of the wave; a wave motion; a vibration.
Undulationist	 One who advocates the undulatory theory of light.
Undulative	 Consisting in, or accompanied by, undulations; undulatory.
Undulatory	 Moving in the manner of undulations, or waves; resembling the motion of waves, which successively rise or swell rise or swell and fall; pertaining to a propagated alternating motion, similar to that of waves.
Undull	 To remove the dullness of
Undulous	 Undulating
Unduly	 In an undue manner.
Undumpish	 To relieve from the dumps.
Undust	 To free from dust.
Undwellable	 Uninhabitable.
Undwelt	 Not lived (in)
Undying	 Not dying; imperishable; unending; immortal; as, the undying souls of men.
Uneared	 Not eared, or plowed.
Unearned	 Not earned
Unearthed	 of Unearth
Unearthing	 of Unearth
Unearth	 To drive or draw from the earth; hence, to uncover; to bring out from concealment; to bring to light; to disclose; as, to unearth a secret.
Unearthly	 Not terrestrial; supernatural; preternatural; hence, weird; appalling; terrific; as, an unearthly sight or sound.
Unease	 Want of ease
Uneasity	 In an easy manner.
Uneasiness	 The quality or state of being uneasy
Uneasiness	 The quality of making uneasy; discomfort; as, the uneasiness of the road.
Uneasy	 Not easy
Uneasy	 Restless; disturbed by pain, anxiety, or the like; disquieted; perturbed.
Uneasy	 Not easy in manner; constrained; stiff; awkward; not graceful; as, an uneasy deportment.
Uneasy	 Occasioning want of ease
Uneath	 Not easy
Uneath	 Not easily
Unedge	 To deprive of the edge
Unefectual	 Ineffectual.
Unelastic	 Not elastic
Unelasticity	 Inelasticity.
Unelegant	 Inelegant.
Uneligible	 Ineligible.
Unembarrassed	 Not embarrassed.
Unembarrassed	 Not perplexed in mind; not confused; as, the speaker appeared unembarrassed.
Unembarrassed	 Free from pecuniary difficulties or encumbrances; as, he and his property are unembarrassed.
Unembarrassed	 Free from perplexing connection; as, the question comes into court unembarrassed with irrelevant matter.
Unembarrassment	 Freedom from embarrassment.
Unembodied	 Free from a corporeal body; disembodied; as, unembodied spirits.
Unembodied	 Not embodied; not collected into a body; not yet organized; as, unembodied militia.
Unempirically	 Not empirically
Unemployed	 Not employed in manual or other labor
Unemployed	 Not invested or used; as, unemployed capital.
Unencumber	 To free from incumbrance
Unendly	 Unending
Unentangle	 To disentangle.
Unequal	 Not equal; not matched; not of the same size, length, breadth, quantity, strength, talents, acquirements, age, station, or the like; as, the fingers are of unequal length; peers and commoners are unequal in rank.
Unequal	 Ill balanced or matched; disproportioned; hence, not equitable; partial; unjust; unfair.
Unequal	 Not uniform; not equable; irregular; uneven; as, unequal pulsations; an unequal poem.
Unequal	 Not adequate or sufficient; inferior; as, the man was unequal to the emergency; the timber was unequal to the sudden strain.
Unequal	 Not having the two sides or the parts symmetrical.
Unequalable	 Not capable of being equaled or paralleled.
Unequaled	 Not equaled; unmatched; unparalleled; unrivaled; exceeding; surpassing; -- in a good or bad sense; as, unequaled excellence; unequaled ingratitude or baseness.
Unequally	 In an unequal manner.
Unequalness	 The quality or state of being unequal
Unequitable	 Inequitable.
Unequity	 Want of equity or uprightness
Unequivocal	 Not equivocal; not doubtful; not ambiguous; evident; sincere; plain; as, unequivocal evidence; unequivocal words.
Unerring	 Committing no mistake; incapable or error or failure certain; sure; unfailing; as, the unerring wisdom of God.
Unerringly	 In an unerring manner.
Unessential	 Not essential
Unessential	 Void of essence, or real being.
Unessential	 Something not constituting essence, or something which is not of absolute necessity; as, forms are among the unessentials of religion.
Unessentially	 In an unessential manner.
Unestablish	 To disestablish.
Ubeth	 Alt. of Unethes
Unethes	 With difficulty
Uneven	 Not even; not level; not uniform; rough; as, an uneven road or way; uneven ground.
Uneven	 Not equal
Uneven	 Not divisible by two without a remainder; odd; -- said of numbers; as, 3, 7, and 11 are uneven numbers.
Unevitable	 Inevitable.
Unexact	 Not exact
Unexampled	 Having no example or similar case
Unexceptionable	 Not liable to any exception or objection; unobjectionable; faultless; good; excellent; as, a man of most unexceptionable character.
Unexceptive	 Not exceptive; not including, admitting, or being, an exception.
Unexcusable	 Inexcusable.
Unexhaustible	 Inexhaustible.
Unexpectation	 Absence of expectation
Unexpected	 Not expected
Unexpedient	 Inexpedient.
Unexpensive	 Inexpensive.
Unexperience	 Inexperience.
Unexperienced	 Not experienced
Unexperienced	 Untried
Unexperient	 Inexperienced.
Unexpert	 Not expert
Unexpertly	 In an unexpert manner.
Unexpressible	 Inexpressible.
Unexpressive	 Not expressive
Unexpressive	 Incapable of being expressed
Unextinguishable	 Inextinguishable.
Unextricable	 Not extricable
Unface	 To remove the face or cover from
Unfailable	 Infallible.
Unfailing	 Not failing
Unfair	 To deprive of fairness or beauty.
Unfair	 Not fair
Unfaith	 Absence or want of faith
Unfaithful	 Not faithful; not observant of promises, vows, allegiance, or duty; violating trust or confidence; treacherous; perfidious; as, an unfaithful subject; an unfaithful agent or servant.
Unfaithful	 Not possessing faith
Unfalcated	 Not falcated, or hooked.
Unfalcated	 Having no deductions; not curtailed, or shortened; undiminished.
Unfallible	 Infallible.
Unfasten	 To loose
Unfathered	 Having no father; fatherless; hence, born contrary to nature.
Unfathered	 Having no acknowledged father; hence, illegitimate; spurious; bastard.
Unfavorable	 Not favorable
Unfeather	 To deprive of feathers
Unfeatured	 Wanting regular features
Unfeaty	 Not feat
Unfeeling	 Destitute of feeling
Unfeeling	 Without kind feelings
Unfeigned	 Not feigned; not counterfeit; not hypocritical; real; sincere; genuine; as, unfeigned piety; unfeigned love to man.
Unfellow	 To prevent from being a fellow or companion
Unfellowed	 Being without a fellow
Unfence	 To strip of a fence
Unfertile	 Not fertile
Unfestlich	 Unfit for a feast; hence, jaded; worn.
Unfetter	 To loose from fetters or from restraint; to unchain; to unshackle; to liberate; as, to unfetter the mind.
Unfeudalize	 To free from feudal customs or character
Unfile	 To remove from a file or record.
Unfiled	 Not defiled
Unfilial	 Unsuitable to a son or a daughter
Unfinished	 Not finished, not brought to an end; imperfect; incomplete; left in the rough; wanting the last hand or touch; as, an unfinished house; an unfinished picture; an unfinished iron casting.
Unfirm	 Infirm.
Unfirmness	 Infirmness.
Unfit	 To make unsuitable or incompetent; to deprive of the strength, skill, or proper qualities for anything; to disable; to incapacitate; to disqualify; as, sickness unfits a man for labor; sin unfits us for the society of holy beings.
Unfit	 Not fit
Unfix	 To loosen from a fastening; to detach from anything that holds; to unsettle; as, to unfix a bayonet; to unfix the mind or affections.
Unfix	 To make fluid
Unfledged	 Not fledged; not feathered; hence, not fully developed; immature.
Unflesh	 To deprive of flesh
Unfleshly	 Not pertaining to the flesh
Unflexible	 Inflexible.
Unflinching	 Not flinching or shrinking
Unflower	 To strip of flowers.
Unfold	 To open the folds of; to expand; to spread out; as, to unfold a tablecloth.
Unfold	 To open, as anything covered or close; to lay open to view or contemplation; to bring out in all the details, or by successive development; to display; to disclose; to reveal; to elucidate; to explain; as, to unfold one's designs; to unfold the principles of a science.
Unfold	 To release from a fold or pen; as, to unfold sheep.
Unfold	 To open
Unfolder	 One who, or that which, unfolds.
Unfoldment	 The acct of unfolding, or the state of being unfolded.
Unfool	 To restore from folly, or from being a fool.
Unforesee	 To fail to foresee.
Unforeseeable	 Incapable of being foreseen.
Unforeskinned	 Deprived of the foreskin
Unforgettable	 Not forgettable
Unform	 To decompose, or resolve into parts; to destroy the form of; to unmake.
Unformed	 Decomposed, or resolved into parts; having the form destroyed.
Unformed	 Not formed; not arranged into regular shape, order, or relations; shapeless; amorphous.
Unformed	 Unorganized; without definite shape or structure; as, an unformed, or unorganized, ferment.
Unfortunate	 Not fortunate; unsuccessful; not prosperous; unlucky; attended with misfortune; unhappy; as, an unfortunate adventure; an unfortunate man; an unfortunate commander; unfortunate business.
Unfortunate	 An unfortunate person.
Unfounded	 Not founded
Unfounded	 Having no foundation; baseless; vain; idle; as, unfounded expectations.
Unframe	 To take apart, or destroy the frame of.
Unfrangible	 Infrangible.
Unfrankable	 Not frankable
Unfraught	 Not fraught
Unfraught	 Removed, as a burden; unloaded.
Unfree	 Not free
Unfreeze	 To thaw.
Unfrequency	 Infrequency.
Unfrequent	 Infrequent.
Unfrequent	 To cease to frequent.
Unfrequented	 Rarely visited; seldom or never resorted to by human beings; as, an unfrequented place or forest.
Unfret	 To smooth after being fretted.
Unfriend	 One not a friend
Unfriended	 Wanting friends
Unfriendly	 Not friendly; not kind or benevolent; hostile; as, an unfriendly neighbor.
Unfriendly	 Not favorable; not adapted to promote or support any object; as, weather unfriendly to health.
Unfriendship	 The state or quality of being unfriendly
Unfrock	 To deprive or divest or a frock; specifically, to deprive of priestly character or privilege; as, to unfrock a priest.
Unfruitful	 Not producing fruit or offspring; unproductive; infertile; barren; sterile; as, an unfruitful tree or animal; unfruitful soil; an unfruitful life or effort.
Unfumed	 Not exposed to fumes
Unfurl	 To loose from a furled state; to unfold; to expand; to open or spread; as, to unfurl sails; to unfurl a flag.
Unfurnish	 To strip of furniture
Unfusible	 Infusible.
Ungain	 Ungainly; clumsy; awkward; also, troublesome; inconvenient.
Ungainliness	 The state or quality of being ungainly
Ungainly	 Not gainly; not expert or dexterous; clumsy; awkward; uncouth; as, an ungainly strut in walking.
Ungainly	 Unsuitable
Ungainly	 In an ungainly manner.
Ungear	 To strip of gear
Ungeld	 A person so far out of the protection of the law, that if he were murdered, no geld, or fine, should be paid, or composition made by him that killed him.
Ungenerous	 Not generous
Ungenerously	 In an ungenerous manner.
Ungenitured	 Destitute of genitals
Ungentle	 Not gentle
Unget	 To cause to be unbegotten or unborn, or as if unbegotten or unborn.
Ungifted	 Being without gifts, especially native gifts or endowments.
Ungird	 To loose the girdle or band of
Ungive	 To yield
Ungka	 The siamang
Ungka-puti	 The agile gibbon; -- called also ungka-pati, and ungka-etam. See Gibbon.
Unglaze	 To strip of glass; to remove the glazing, or glass, from, as a window.
Unglorify	 To deprive of glory.
Unglorious	 Inglorious.
Unglove	 To take off the glove or gloves of; as, to unglove the hand.
Unglue	 To separate, part, or open, as anything fastened with glue.
Ungod	 To deprive of divinity
Ungod	 To cause to recognize no god
Ungodly	 Not godly
Ungodly	 Polluted by sin or wickedness.
Ungored	 Not stained with gore
Ungored	 Not gored or pierced.
Ungot	 Alt. of Ungotten
Ungotten	 Not gotten
Ungotten	 Not begotten.
Ungovernable	 Not governable; not capable of being governed, ruled, or restrained; licentious; wild; unbridled; as, ungovernable passions.
Ungown	 To strip of a gown
Ungowned	 Stripped of a gown
Ungowned	 Not having, or not wearing, a gown.
Ungraceful	 Not graceful; not marked with ease and dignity; deficient in beauty and elegance; inelegant; awkward; as, ungraceful manners; ungraceful speech.
Ungracious	 Not gracious
Ungracious	 Having no grace
Ungracious	 Not well received
Ungrate	 Displeasing
Ungrateful	 Not grateful; not thankful for favors; making no returns, or making ill return for kindness, attention, etc.; ingrateful.
Ungrateful	 Unpleasing; unacceptable; disagreeable; as, harsh sounds are ungrateful to the ear.
Ungrave	 To raise or remove from the grave
Ungual	 Of or pertaining to a nail, claw, talon, or hoof, or resembling one.
Ungual	 Having a nail, claw, or hoof attached; -- said of certain bones of the feet.
Unguard	 To deprive of a guard
Ungueal	 Ungual.
Unguent	 A lubricant or salve for sores, burns, or the like; an ointment.
Unguentary	 Like an unguent, or partaking of its qualities.
Unguentous	 Unguentary.
Unguestlike	 In a manner not becoming to a guest.
Unguical	 Ungual.
Unguicular	 Of or pertaining to a claw or a nail
Unguiculata	 An extensive division of Mammalia including those having claws or nails, as distinguished from the hoofed animals (Ungulata).
Unguiculate	 One of the Unguiculata.
Unguiculate	 Alt. of Unguiculated
Unguiculated	 Furnished with nails, claws, or hooks; clawed. See the Note under Nail, n., 1.
Unguiculated	 Furnished with a claw, or a narrow stalklike base, as the petals of a carnation.
Unguiferous	 Producing, having, or supporting nails or claws.
Unguiform	 Having the form of a claw or claws.
Unguinous	 Consisting of, or resembling, fat or oil; oily; unctuous; oleaginous.
Ungues	 of Unguis
Unguis	 The nail, claw, talon, or hoof of a finger, toe, or other appendage.
Unguis	 One of the terminal hooks on the foot of an insect.
Unguis	 The slender base of a petal in some flowers
Ungulae	 of Ungula
Ungula	 A hoof, claw, or talon.
Ungula	 A section or part of a cylinder, cone, or other solid of revolution, cut off by a plane oblique to the base; -- so called from its resemblance to the hoof of a horse.
Ungula	 Same as Unguis, 3.
Ungular	 Of or pertaining to a hoof, claw, or talon; ungual.
Ungulata	 An extensive group of mammals including all those that have hoofs. It comprises the Artiodactyla and Perissodactyla.
Ungulate	 Shaped like a hoof.
Ungulate	 Furnished with hoofs. See the Note under Nail, n., 1.
Ungulate	 Any hoofed quadruped
Unguled	 Hoofed, or bearing hoofs; -- used only when these are of a tincture different from the body.
Unguligrade	 Having, or walking on, hoofs.
Ungulous	 Same as Ungulate.
Unhair	 To deprive of hair, or of hairs; as, to unhair hides for leather.
Unhallow	 To profane
Unhallowed	 Not consecrated; hence, profane; unholy; impious; wicked.
Unhand	 To loose from the hand
Unhandsome	 Not handsome
Unhandsome	 Wanting noble or amiable qualities; dishonorable; illiberal; low; disingenuous; mean; indecorous; as, unhandsome conduct, treatment, or imputations.
Unhandsome	 Unhandy
Unhandy	 Clumsy; awkward; as, an Unhandy man.
Unhang	 To divest or strip of hangings; to remove the hangings, as a room.
Unhang	 To remove (something hanging or swinging) from that which supports it; as, to unhang a gate.
Unhap	 Ill luck
Unhappied	 Made unhappy.
Unhappy	 Not happy or fortunate; unfortunate; unlucky; as, affairs have taken an unhappy turn.
Unhappy	 In a degree miserable or wretched; not happy; sad; sorrowful; as, children render their parents unhappy by misconduct.
Unhappy	 Marked by infelicity; evil; calamitous; as, an unhappy day.
Unhappy	 Mischievous
Unharbor	 To drive from harbor or shelter.
Unharbored	 Having no harbor or shelter
Unharbored	 Affording no harbor or shelter.
Unharmonious	 Inharmonious; unsymmetrical; also, unmusical; discordant.
Unharness	 To strip of harness; to loose from harness or gear; as, to unharness horses or oxen.
Unharness	 To disarm
Unhasp	 To unloose the hasp of
Unhat	 To take off the hat of; to remove one's hat, especially as a mark of respect.
Unhead	 To take out the head of; as, to unhead a cask.
Unhead	 To decapitate
Unheal	 Misfortune
Unheal	 To uncover. See Unhele.
Unhealth	 Unsoundness
Unheard	 Not heard; not perceived by the ear; as, words unheard by those present.
Unheard	 Not granted an audience or a hearing; not allowed to speak; not having made a defense, or stated one's side of a question; disregarded; unheeded; as, to condem/ a man unheard.
Unheard	 Not known to fame
Unheard-of	 New
Unheart	 To cause to lose heart
Unheedy	 Incautious
Unheired	 Destitute of an heir.
Unhele	 Same as Unheal, n.
Unhele	 To uncover.
Unhelm	 To deprive of the helm or helmet.
Unhelmed	 Divested or deprived of the helm or helmet.
Unhelmed	 Not wearing a helmet
Unhelmet	 To deprive of the helmet.
Unhide	 To bring out from concealment
Unhinge	 To take from the hinges; as, to unhinge a door.
Unhinge	 To displace
Unhinge	 To render unstable or wavering; to unsettle; as, to unhinge one's mind or opinions; to unhinge the nerves.
Unhingement	 The act unhinging, or the state of being unhinged.
Unhitch	 To free from being hitched, or as if from being hitched; to unfasten; to loose; as, to unhitch a horse, or a trace.
Unhive	 To drive or remove from a hive.
Unhive	 To deprive of habitation or shelter, as a crowd.
Unhoard	 To take or steal from a hoard
Unhold	 To cease to hold
Unholy	 Not holy; unhallowed; not consecrated; hence, profane; wicked; impious.
Unhonest	 Dishonest
Unhood	 To remove a hood or disguise from.
Unhook	 To loose from a hook; to undo or open by loosening or unfastening the hooks of; as, to unhook a fish; to unhook a dress.
Unhoop	 To strip or deprive of hoops
Unhoped	 Not hoped or expected.
Unhoped-for	 Unhoped
Unhorse	 To throw from a horse; to cause to dismount; also, to take a horse or horses from; as, to unhorse a rider; to unhorse a carriage.
Unhosed	 Without hose.
Unhospitable	 Inhospitable.
Unhouse	 To drive from a house or habitation; to dislodge; hence, to deprive of shelter.
Unhoused	 Driven from a house
Unhoused	 Not provided with a house or shelter
Unhouseled	 Not having received the sacrament.
Unhuman	 Not human
Unhumanize	 To render inhuman or barbarous.
Unhusked	 Not husked
Unhusked	 Having the husk removed
Uni-	 A prefix signifying one, once; as in uniaxial, unicellular.
Uniat	 Alt. of Uniate
Uniate	 A member of the Greek Church, who nevertheless acknowledges the supremacy of the Pope of Rome; one of the United Greeks. Also used adjectively.
Uniaxal	 Uniaxial.
Uniaxial	 Having but one optic axis, or line of no double refraction.
Uniaxial	 Having only one axis
Uniaxially	 In a uniaxial manner.
Unibranchiate	 Having but one gill, as certain molluscs.
Unicameral	 Having, or consisting of, a single chamber; -- said of a legislative assembly.
Unicapsular	 Having but one capsule to each flower.
Unicarinated	 Having one ridge or keel.
Unicelled	 Unicellular.
Unicellular	 Having, or consisting of, but a single cell; as, a unicellular organism.
Unicentral	 Having a single center of growth.
Unicity	 The condition of being united
Uniclinal	 See Nonoclinal.
Unicolorous	 Having the surface of a uniform color.
Unicorn	 A fabulous animal with one horn
Unicorn	 A two-horned animal of some unknown kind, so called in the Authorized Version of the Scriptures.
Unicorn	 Any large beetle having a hornlike prominence on the head or prothorax.
Unicorn	 The larva of a unicorn moth.
Unicorn	 The kamichi
Unicorn	 A howitzer.
Unicornous	 Having but a single horn
Unicostate	 Having a single rib or strong nerve running upward from the base
Unicursal	 That can be passed over in a single course
Unideaed	 Having no ideas
Unideal	 Not ideal
Unideal	 Unideaed.
Unidimensional	 Having but one dimension. See Dimension.
Unifacial	 Having but one front surface; as, some foliaceous corals are unifacial, the polyp mouths being confined to one surface.
Unific	 Making one or unity
Unification	 The act of unifying, or the state of being unified.
Unifier	 One who, or that which, unifies; as, a natural law is a unifier of phenomena.
Unifilar	 Having only one thread; involving the use of only one thread, wire, fiber, or the like; as, unifilar suspension.
Uniflagellate	 Having but one flagellum; as, uniflagellate organisms.
Uniflorous	 Bearing one flower only; as, a uniflorous peduncle.
Unifolliate	 Having only one leaf.
Unifollilate	 Having only one leaflet, as the leaves of the orange tree.
Uniform	 Having always the same form, manner, or degree; not varying or variable; unchanging; consistent; equable; homogenous; as, the dress of the Asiatics has been uniform from early ages; the temperature is uniform; a stratum of uniform clay.
Uniform	 Of the same form with others
Uniform	 A dress of a particular style or fashion worn by persons in the same service or order by means of which they have a distinctive appearance; as, the uniform of the artillery, of the police, of the Freemasons, etc.
Uniform	 To clothe with a uniform; as, to uniform a company of soldiers.
Uniform	 To make conformable.
Uniformal	 Uniform.
Uniformism	 The doctrine of uniformity in the geological history of the earth; -- in part equivalent to uniformitarianism, but also used, more broadly, as opposed to catastrophism.
Uniformitarian	 Of, pertaining to, or designating, the view or doctrine that existing causes, acting in the same manner and with essentially the same intensity as at the present time, are sufficient to account for all geological changes.
Uniformitarian	 One who accepts uniformitarianism, or the uniformitarian doctrine.
Uniformitarianism	 The uniformitarian doctrine.
Uniformity	 The quality or state of being uniform; freedom from variation or difference; resemblance to itself at all times; sameness of action, effect, etc., under like conditions; even tenor; as, the uniformity of design in a poem; the uniformity of nature.
Uniformity	 Consistency; sameness; as, the uniformity of a man's opinions.
Uniformity	 Similitude between the parts of a whole; as, the uniformity of sides in a regular figure; beauty is said to consist in uniformity with variety.
Uniformity	 Continued or unvaried sameness or likeness.
Uniformity	 Conformity to a pattern or rule; resemblance, consonance, or agreement; as, the uniformity of different churches in ceremonies or rites.
Uniformly	 In a uniform manner; without variation or diversity; by a regular, constant, or common ratio of change; with even tenor; as, a temper uniformly mild.
Unifromness	 The quality or state of being uniform
Unified	 of Unify
Unifying	 of Unify
Unify	 To cause to be one
Unigeniture	 The state of being the only begotten.
Unigenous	 Being of one kind
Unijugate	 Having but one pair of leaflets
Unilabiate	 Having one lip only; as, a unilabiate corolla.
Unilateral	 Being on one side only
Unilateral	 Pertaining to one side; one-sided; as, a unilateral raceme, in which the flowers grow only on one side of a common axis, or are all turned to one side.
Uniliteral	 Consisting of one letter only; as, a uniliteral word or sign.
Unilobar	 Consisting of a single lobe.
Unilocular	 Having one cell or cavity only; as, a unilocular capsule or shell.
Unimitable	 Inimitable.
Unimpairable	 That can not be impaired.
Unimpeachable	 Not impeachable; not to be called in question; exempt from liability to accusation; free from stain, guilt, or fault; irreproachable; blameless; as, an unimpeachable reputation; unimpeachable testimony.
Unimplicate	 Not implicated.
Unimportance	 Want of importance
Unimproved	 Not improved; not made better or wiser; not advanced in knowledge, manners, or excellence.
Unimproved	 Not used; not employed; especially, not used or employed for a valuable purpose; as, unimproved opportunities; unimproved blessings.
Unimproved	 Not tilled, cultivated, or built upon; yielding no revenue; as, unimproved land or soil.
Unimuscular	 Having only one adductor muscle, and one muscular impression on each valve, as the oyster; monomyarian.
Unincumbered	 Not incumbered
Unincumbered	 Free from any temporary estate or interest, or from mortgage, or other charge or debt; as, an estate unincumbered with dower.
Uninfringible	 That may not be infringed; as, an uninfringible monopoly.
Unintelligence	 Absence or lack of intelligence
Uninteressed	 Uninterested
Uninterested	 Not interested; not having any interest or property in; having nothing at stake; as, to be uninterested in any business.
Uninterested	 Not having the mind or the passions engaged; as, uninterested in a discourse or narration.
Unintermission	 Want or failure of intermission.
Uninucleated	 Possessed of but a single nucleus; as, a uninucleated cell.
Unio	 Any one of numerous species of fresh-water mussels belonging to Unio and many allied genera.
Uniocular	 Of, pertaining to, or seated in, one eye; monocular.
Union	 The act of uniting or joining two or more things into one, or the state of being united or joined; junction; coalition; combination.
Union	 Agreement and conjunction of mind, spirit, will, affections, or the like; harmony; concord.
Union	 That which is united, or made one; something formed by a combination or coalition of parts or members; a confederation; a consolidated body; a league; as, the weavers have formed a union; trades unions have become very numerous; the United States of America are often called the Union.
Union	 A textile fabric composed of two or more materials, as cotton, silk, wool, etc., woven together.
Union	 A large, fine pearl.
Union	 A device emblematic of union, used on a national flag or ensign, sometimes, as in the military standard of Great Britain, covering the whole field; sometimes, as in the flag of the United States, and the English naval and marine flag, occupying the upper inner corner, the rest of the flag being called the fly. Also, a flag having such a device; especially, the flag of Great Britain.
Union	 A joint or other connection uniting parts of machinery, or the like, as the elastic pipe of a tender connecting it with the feed pipe of a locomotive engine; especially, a pipe fitting for connecting pipes, or pipes and fittings, in such a way as to facilitate disconnection.
Union	 A cask suspended on trunnions, in which fermentation is carried on.
Unionism	 The sentiment of attachment to a federal union, especially to the federal union of the United States.
Unionism	 The principles, or the system, of combination among workmen engaged in the same occupation or trade.
Unionist	 One who advocates or promotes union; especially a loyal supporter of a federal union, as that of the United States.
Unionist	 A member or supporter of a trades union.
Unionistic	 Of or pertaining to union or unionists
Uniovulate	 Containing but one ovule.
Unipara	 A woman who has borne one child.
Uniparous	 Producing but one egg or young at a time.
Uniparous	 Producing but one axis of inflorescence
Uniped	 Having only one foot.
Unipersonal	 Existing as one, and only one, person; as, a unipersonal God.
Unipersonal	 Used in only one person, especially only in the third person, as some verbs; impersonal.
Unipersonalist	 One who believes that the Deity is unipersonal.
Uniphonous	 Having but one sound, as the drum.
Uniplicate	 Having, or consisting of, but one fold.
Unipolar	 Having, or acting by means of, one pole only.
Unipolar	 Having but one pole or process
Unique	 Being without a like or equal
Unique	 A thing without a like
Uniquity	 The quality or state of being unique
Uniradiated	 Having but one ray.
Uniramous	 Having but one branch.
Uniseptate	 Having but one septum, or partition; -- said of two-celled fruits, such as the silicles of cruciferous plants.
Uniserial	 Having only one row or series.
Uniseriate	 Having one line or series
Unisexual	 Having one sex only, as plants which have the male and female flowers on separate individuals, or animals in which the sexes are in separate individuals; di/cious; -- distinguished from bisexual, or hermaphrodite. See Di/cious.
Unisilicate	 A salt of orthosilicic acid, H4SiO4; -- so called because the ratio of the oxygen atoms united to the basic metals and silicon respectively is 1:1; for example, Mg2SiO4 or 2MgO.SiO2.
Unison	 Harmony
Unison	 Identity in pitch; coincidence of sounds proceeding from an equality in the number of vibrations made in a given time by two or more sonorous bodies. Parts played or sung in octaves are also said to be in unison, or in octaves.
Unison	 A single, unvaried.
Unison	 Sounding alone.
Unison	 Sounded alike in pitch; unisonant; unisonous; as, unison passages, in which two or more parts unite in coincident sound.
Unisonal	 Being in unison
Unisonance	 Accordance of sounds
Unisonant	 Being in unison
Unisonous	 Being in unison
Unit	 A single thing or person.
Unit	 The least whole number
Unit	 A gold coin of the reign of James I., of the value of twenty shillings.
Unit	 Any determinate amount or quantity (as of length, time, heat, value) adopted as a standard of measurement for other amounts or quantities of the same kind.
Unit	 A single thing, as a magnitude or number, regarded as an undivided whole.
Unitable	 Capable of union by growth or otherwise.
Unitarian	 One who denies the doctrine of the Trinity, believing that God exists only in one person; a unipersonalist; also, one of a denomination of Christians holding this belief.
Unitarian	 One who rejects the principle of dualism.
Unitarian	 A monotheist.
Unitarian	 Of or pertaining to Unitarians, or their doctrines.
Unitarianism	 The doctrines of Unitarians.
Unitarianized	 of Unitarianize
Unitarianizing	 of Unitarianize
Unitarianize	 To change or turn to Unitarian views.
Unitary	 Of or pertaining to a unit or units; relating to unity; as, the unitary method in arithmetic.
Unitary	 Of the nature of a unit
United	 of Unite
Uniting	 of Unite
Unite	 To put together so as to make one; to join, as two or more constituents, to form a whole; to combine; to connect; to join; to cause to adhere; as, to unite bricks by mortar; to unite iron bars by welding; to unite two armies.
Unite	 Hence, to join by a legal or moral bond, as families by marriage, nations by treaty, men by opinions; to join in interest, affection, fellowship, or the like; to cause to agree; to harmonize; to associate; to attach.
Unite	 To become one; to be cemented or consolidated; to combine, as by adhesion or mixture; to coalesce; to grow together.
Unite	 To join in an act; to concur; to act in concert; as, all parties united in signing the petition.
Unite	 United; joint; as, unite consent.
United	 Combined
Unitedly	 In an united manner.
Uniter	 One who, or that which, unites.
Uniterable	 Not iterable
Unition	 The act of uniting, or the state of being united; junction.
Unitive	 Having the power of uniting; causing, or tending to produce, union.
Unitively	 In a unitive manner.
Unitized	 of Unitize
Unitizing	 of Unitize
Unitize	 To reduce to a unit, or one whole; to form into a unit; to unify.
Unitude	 Unity.
Unities	 of Unity
Unity	 The state of being one
Unity	 Concord; harmony; conjunction; agreement; uniformity; as, a unity of proofs; unity of doctrine.
Unity	 Any definite quantity, or aggregate of quantities or magnitudes taken as one, or for which 1 is made to stand in calculation; thus, in a table of natural sines, the radius of the circle is regarded as unity.
Unity	 In dramatic composition, one of the principles by which a uniform tenor of story and propriety of representation are preserved; conformity in a composition to these; in oratory, discourse, etc., the due subordination and reference of every part to the development of the leading idea or the eastablishment of the main proposition.
Unity	 Such a combination of parts as to constitute a whole, or a kind of symmetry of style and character.
Unity	 The peculiar characteristics of an estate held by several in joint tenancy.
Univalence	 The quality or state of being univalent.
Univalent	 Having a valence of one; capable of combining with, or of being substituted for, one atom of hydrogen; monovalent; -- said of certain atoms and radicals.
Univalve	 A shell consisting of one valve only; a mollusk whose shell is composed of a single piece, as the snails and conchs.
Univalve	 Alt. of Univalved
Univalved	 Having one valve; as, a univalve shell or pericarp.
Univalvia	 Same as Gastropoda.
Univalvular	 Same as Univalve, a.
Universal	 Of or pertaining to the universe; extending to, including, or affecting, the whole number, quantity, or space; unlimited; general; all-reaching; all-pervading; as, universal ruin; universal good; universal benevolence or benefice.
Universal	 Constituting or considered as a whole; total; entire; whole; as, the universal world.
Universal	 Adapted or adaptable to all or to various uses, shapes, sizes, etc.; as, a universal milling machine.
Universal	 Forming the whole of a genus; relatively unlimited in extension; affirmed or denied of the whole of a subject; as, a universal proposition; -- opposed to particular; e. g. (universal affirmative) All men are animals; (universal negative) No men are omniscient.
Universal	 The whole
Universal	 A general abstract conception, so called from being universally applicable to, or predicable of, each individual or species contained under it.
Universal	 A universal proposition. See Universal, a., 4.
Universalian	 Of or pertaining to Universalism
Universalism	 The doctrine or belief that all men will be saved, or made happy, in the future state.
Universalist	 One who believes in Universalism
Universalist	 One who affects to understand all the particulars in statements or propositions.
Universalist	 Of or pertaining to Unversalists of their doctrines.
Universalistic	 Of or pertaining to the whole
Universalties	 of Universality
Universality	 The quality or state of being universal; unlimited extension or application; generality; -- distinguished from particularity; as, the unversality of a proposition; the unversality of sin; the unversality of the Deluge.
Universalized	 of Universalize
Universalizing	 of Universalize
Universalize	 To make universal
Universally	 In a universal manner; without exception; as, God's laws are universally binding on his creatures.
Universalness	 The quality or state of being universal
Universe	 All created things viewed as constituting one system or whole; the whole body of things, or of phenomena; the / / of the Greeks, the mundus of the Latins; the world; creation.
Universities	 of University
University	 The universe
University	 An association, society, guild, or corporation, esp. one capable of having and acquiring property.
University	 An institution organized and incorporated for the purpose of imparting instruction, examining students, and otherwise promoting education in the higher branches of literature, science, art, etc., empowered to confer degrees in the several arts and faculties, as in theology, law, medicine, music, etc. A university may exist without having any college connected with it, or it may consist of but one college, or it may comprise an assemblage of colleges established in any place, with professors for instructing students in the sciences and other branches of learning.
Universological	 Of or pertaining to universology.
Universologist	 One who is versed in universology.
Universology	 The science of the universe, and the relations which it involves.
Univocacy	 The quality or state of being univocal.
Univocal	 Having one meaning only
Univocal	 Having unison of sound, as the octave in music. See Unison, n., 2.
Univocal	 Having always the same drift or tenor
Univocal	 Unequivocal
Univocal	 A generic term, or a term applicable in the same sense to all the species it embraces.
Univocal	 A word having but one meaning.
Univocally	 In a univocal manner
Univocation	 Agreement of name and meaning.
Unjoin	 To disjoin.
Unjoint	 To disjoint.
Unjointed	 Disjointed; unconnected; hence, incoherent.
Unjointed	 Having no joint or articulation; as, an unjointed stem.
Unjust	 Acting contrary to the standard of right; not animated or controlled by justice; false; dishonest; as, an unjust man or judge.
Unjust	 Contrary to justice and right; prompted by a spirit of injustice; wrongful; as, an unjust sentence; an unjust demand; an unjust accusation.
Unjustice	 Want of justice
Unkard	 See Unked.
Unke	 A European aquatic toad (Bombinator igneus). Its back is dark
Unked	 Odd
Unked	 Lonely
Unkemmed	 Unkempt.
Unkempt	 Not combed; disheveled; as, an urchin with unkempt hair.
Unkempt	 Fig.
Unkennel	 To drive from a kennel or hole; as, to unkennel a fox.
Unkennel	 Fig.: To discover
Unkent	 Unknown
Unketh	 Uncouth.
Unkind	 Having no race or kindred
Unkind	 Not kind; contrary to nature, or the law of kind or kindred; unnatural.
Unkind	 Wanting in kindness, sympathy, benevolence, gratitude, or the like; cruel; harsh; unjust; ungrateful.
Unkindliness	 Unkindness.
Unkindly	 Not kindly
Unkindly	 Unnatural
Unkindly	 Unfavorable
Unkindred	 Not kindred
Unking	 To cause to cease to be a king.
Unkingship	 The quality or condition of being unkinged
Unkiss	 To cancel or annul what was done or sealed by a kiss
Unkle	 See Uncle.
Unknight	 To deprive of knighthood.
Unknit	 To undo or unravel what is knitted together.
Unknot	 To free from knots
Unknow	 To cease to know
Unknow	 To fail of knowing
Unknow	 Unknown.
Unknowledged	 Not acknowledged or recognized.
Unknown	 Not known
Unlabored	 Not produced by labor or toil.
Unlabored	 Not cultivated; untitled; as, an unlabored field.
Unlabored	 Not laboriously produced, or not evincing labor; as, an unlabored style or work.
Unlace	 To loose by undoing a lacing; as, to unlace a shoe.
Unlace	 To loose the dress of; to undress; hence, to expose; to disgrace.
Unlace	 To loose, and take off, as a bonnet from a sail, or to cast off, as any lacing in any part of the rigging of a vessel.
Unlade	 To take the load from; to take out the cargo of; as, to unlade a ship or a wagon.
Unlade	 To unload; to remove, or to have removed, as a load or a burden; to discharge.
Unlaid	 Not laid or placed
Unlaid	 Not allayed
Unlaid	 Not laid out, as a corpse.
Unland	 To deprive of lands.
Unlap	 To unfold.
Unlash	 To loose, as that which is lashed or tied down.
Unlatched	 of Unlatch
Unlatching	 of Unlatch
Unlatch	 To open or loose by lifting the latch; as, to unlatch a door.
Unlaugh	 To recall, as former laughter.
Unlaw	 To deprive of the authority or character of law.
Unlaw	 To put beyond protection of law
Unlaw	 To impose a fine upon
Unlaw	 Any transgression or offense against the law.
Unlaw	 A fine imposed as a penalty for violation of the law.
Unlawed	 Not having the claws and balls of the forefeet cut off
Unlawful	 Not lawful
Unlawlike	 Not according to law
Unlay	 To untwist; as, to unlay a rope.
Unlearn	 To forget, as what has been learned; to lose from memory; also, to learn the contrary of.
Unlearn	 To fail to learn.
Unlearned	 Not learned
Unlearned	 Not gained by study
Unlearned	 Not exhibiting learning; as, unlearned verses.
Unleash	 To free from a leash, or as from a leash; to let go; to release; as, to unleash dogs.
Unleavened	 Not leavened; containing no leaven; as, unleavened bread.
Unless	 Upon any less condition than (the fact or thing stated in the sentence or clause which follows); if not; supposing that not; if it be not; were it not that; except; as, we shall fail unless we are industrious.
Unlicked	 Not licked; hence, not properly formed; ungainly. Cf. To lick into shape, under Lick, v.
Unlike	 Not like; dissimilar; diverse; having no resemblance; as, the cases are unlike.
Unlike	 Not likely
Unlikelihood	 Absence of likelihood.
Unlikeliness	 The quality or state of being unlikely.
Unlikely	 Not likely; improbable; not to be reasonably expected; as, an unlikely event; the thing you mention is very unlikely.
Unlikely	 Not holding out a prospect of success; likely to fail; unpromising; as, unlikely means.
Unlikely	 Not such as to inspire liking
Unlikely	 In an unlikely manner.
Unliken	 To make unlike
Unlikeness	 The quality or state of being unlike
Unlimber	 To detach the limber from; as, to unlimber a gun.
Unlimitable	 Illimitable.
Unlimited	 Not limited; having no bounds; boundless; as, an unlimited expanse of ocean.
Unlimited	 Undefined; indefinite; not bounded by proper exceptions; as, unlimited terms.
Unlimited	 Unconfined
Unline	 To take the lining out of; hence, to empty; as, to unline one's purse.
Unlink	 To separate or undo, as links; to uncoil; to unfasten.
Unliquidated	 Not liquidated
Unliquored	 Not moistened or wet with liquor
Unliquored	 Not in liquor
Unlive	 To //ve in a contrary manner, as a life; to live in a manner contrary to.
Unlived	 Bereft or deprived of life.
Unload	 To take the load from; to discharge of a load or cargo; to disburden; as, to unload a ship; to unload a beast.
Unload	 Hence, to relieve from anything onerous.
Unload	 To discharge or remove, as a load or a burden; as, to unload the cargo of a vessel.
Unload	 To draw the charge from; as, to unload a gun.
Unload	 To sell in large quantities, as stock; to get rid of.
Unload	 To perform the act of unloading anything; as, let unload now.
Unloader	 One who, or that which, unloads; a device for unloading, as hay from a wagon.
Unlocated	 Not located or placed
Unlocated	 Not surveyed, or designated by marks, limits, or boundaries, as appropriated to some individual, company, or corporation; as, unlocated lands.
Unlock	 To unfasten, as what is locked; as, to unlock a door or a chest.
Unlock	 To open, in general; to lay open; to undo.
Unlodge	 To dislodge
Unlook	 To recall or retract, as a look.
Unlooked	 Not observed or foreseen
Unlooked-for	 Not looked for; unexpected; as, an unlooked-for event.
Unloose	 To make loose
Unloose	 To become unfastened
Unloosen	 To loosen
Unlord	 To deprive of the rank or position of a lord.
Unlorded	 Deprived of the rank of a lord.
Unlorded	 Not raised to the rank of a lord.
Unlove	 To cease to love
Unlovely	 Not lovely
Unluckily	 In an unlucky manner.
Unluckiness	 Quality or state of being unlucky.
Unlucky	 Not lucky; not successful; unfortunate; ill-fated; unhappy; as, an unlucky man; an unlucky adventure; an unlucky throw of dice; an unlucky game.
Unlucky	 Bringing bad luck
Unlucky	 Mischievous; as, an unlucky wag.
Unlust	 Listlessness
Unlute	 To separate, as things cemented or luted; to take the lute or the clay from.
Unmade	 Not yet made or formed; as, an unmade grave.
Unmade	 Deprived of form, character, etc.; disunited.
Unmagistrate	 To divest of the office or authority of a magistrate.
Unmaiden	 To ravish
Unmake	 To destroy the form and qualities of
Unman	 To deprive of the distinctive qualities of a human being, as reason, or the like.
Unman	 To emasculate
Unman	 To deprive of the courage and fortitude of a man
Unman	 To deprive of men; as, to unman a ship.
Unmanacle	 To free from manacles.
Unmanhood	 Absence or lack of manhood.
Unmanned	 Deprived of manly qualities; deficient in vigor, strength, courage, etc.; weak; effeminate.
Unmanned	 Not tamed; not made familiar with, or subject to, man; -- also used figuratively.
Unmanned	 Not furnished with men; as, an unmanned ship.
Unmannerly	 Not mannerly
Unmannerly	 Uncivilly
Unmantle	 To divest of a mantle
Unmarry	 To annul the marriage of
Unmartyr	 To degrade from the rank of a martyr.
Unmasculate	 To emasculate.
Unmask	 To strip of a mask or disguise
Unmask	 To put off a mask.
Unmasterable	 Incapable of being mastered or subdued.
Unmaterial	 Not material
Unmeaning	 Having no meaning or signification; as, unmeaning words.
Unmeaning	 Not indicating intelligence or sense; senseless; expressionless; as, an unmeaning face.
Unmeant	 Not meant or intended
Unmeasurable	 Immeasurable.
Unmechanize	 To undo the mechanism of; to unmake; as, to unmechanize a structure.
Unmechanized	 Not mechanized.
Unmeet	 Not meet or fit
Unmember	 To deprive of membership, as in a church.
Unmentionables	 The breeches
Unmerchantable	 Not merchantable; not fit for market; being of a kind, quality, or quantity that is unsalable.
Unmercied	 Unmerciful
Unmerciful	 Not merciful
Unmerciless	 Utterly merciless.
Unmew	 To release from confinement or restraint.
Unmingle	 To separate, as things mixed.
Unmistakable	 Incapable of being mistaken or misunderstood
Unmiter	 Alt. of Unmitre
Unmitre	 To deprive of a miter
Unmold	 Alt. of Unmould
Unmould	 To change the form of
Unmoneyed	 Destitute of money
Unmonopolize	 To recover or release from the state of being monopolized.
Unmoor	 To cause to ride with one anchor less than before, after having been moored by two or more anchors.
Unmoor	 To loose from anchorage. See Moor, v. t.
Unmoor	 To weigh anchor.
Unmoral	 Having no moral perception, quality, or relation; involving no idea of morality; -- distinguished from both moral and immoral.
Unmoralized	 Not restrained or tutored by morality.
Unmorrised	 Not arrayed in the dress of a morris dancer.
Unmortise	 To loosen, unfix, or separate, as things mortised together.
Un-Mosaic	 Not according to Moses
Unmothered	 Deprived of a mother
Unmovable	 Immovable.
Unmovably	 Immovably.
Unmoved	 Not moved
Unmuffle	 To take a covering from, as the face; to uncover.
Unmuffle	 To remove the muffling of, as a drum.
Unmutable	 Immutable.
Unmuzzle	 To loose from a muzzle
Unnail	 To remove the nails from
Unnapped	 Finished without a nap.
Unnatural	 Not natural; contrary, or not conforming, to the order of nature; being without natural traits; as, unnatural crimes.
Unnaturalize	 To make unnatural.
Unnature	 To change the nature of
Unnature	 The contrary of nature
Unnear	 Not near
Unnesessary	 Not necessary; not required under the circumstances; unless; needless; as, unnecessary labor, care, or rigor.
Unnecessity	 The state of being unnecessary
Unneighbored	 Being without neigbors.
Unneighborly	 Not neighborly
Unneighborly	 Not in a neighborly manner.
Unnervate	 Enervate.
Unnerve	 To deprive of nerve, force, or strength; to weaken; to enfeeble; as, to unnerve the arm.
Unnest	 To eject from a nest
Unnestle	 Same as Unnest.
Unnethe	 Alt. of Unnethes
Unnethes	 With difficulty. See Uneath.
Unnoble	 Ignoble.
Unnobly	 Ignobly.
Unhooked	 Without nooks and corners
Unnotify	 To retract or withdraw a notice of.
Unnumbered	 Not numbered
Unnumerable	 Innumerable.
Unnun	 To remove from condition of being a nun.
Unobedience	 Disobedience.
Unobedient	 Disobedient.
Unobservance	 Want or neglect of observance
Unobtrusive	 Not obtrusive
Unoffensive	 Inoffensive.
Unoften	 Not often.
Unoil	 To remove the oil from.
Unoperative	 Producing no effect
Unoperculated	 Destitute of an operculum, or cover.
Unorder	 To countermand an order for.
Unorderly	 Disorderly.
Unordinate	 Disorderly
Unorganized	 Not organized; being without organic structure; specifically (Biol.), not having the different tissues and organs characteristic of living organisms, nor the power of growth and development; as, the unorganized ferments. See the Note under Ferment, n., 1.
Unoriginated	 Not originated
Unoriginated	 Not yet caused to be, or to be made; as, possible inventions still unoriginated.
Unoriginately	 Without origin.
Unossified	 Destitute of a bony structure.
Unowed	 Ownerless.
Unowed	 Not owed; as, to pay money unowed.
Unowned	 Not owned
Unowned	 Not acknowledged
Unpack	 To separate and remove, as things packed; to open and remove the contents of; as, to unpack a trunk.
Unpack	 To relieve of a pack or burden.
Unpacker	 One who unpacks.
Unpaganize	 To cause to cease to be pagan
Unpaint	 To remove the paint from; to efface, as a painting.
Unpaired	 Not paired
Unpalped	 Destitute of a palp.
Unpannel	 To take the saddle off
Unparadise	 To deprive of happiness like that of paradise
Unparagoned	 Having no paragon or equal
Unparalleled	 Having no parallel, or equal; unequaled; unmatched.
Unparched	 Dried up
Unparented	 Having no parent, or no acknowledged parent.
Unparliamentary	 Not parliamentary
Unpartial	 Impartial.
Unpassable	 Impassable.
Unpassionate	 Not passionate
Unpastor	 To cause to be no longer pastor
Unpathed	 Not having a path.
Unpathwayed	 Pathless.
Unpatience	 Impatience.
Unpatient	 Impatient.
Unpaved	 Not paved
Unpaved	 Castrated.
Unpay	 To undo, take back, or annul, as a payment.
Unpeace	 Absence or lack of peace.
Unpedigreed	 Not distinguished by a pedigree.
Unpeeled	 Thoroughly stripped
Unpeeled	 Not peeled.
Unpeerable	 Incapable of having a peer, or equal.
Unpeered	 Having no peer
Unpeg	 To remove a peg or pegs from
Unpen	 To release from a pen or from confinement.
Unpenetrable	 Impenetrable.
Unpenitent	 Impenitent.
Unpeople	 To deprive of inhabitants
Unperegal	 Unequal.
Unperfect	 To mar or destroy the perfection of.
Unperfect	 Imperfect.
Unperfection	 Want of perfection
Unperishable	 Imperishable.
Unperishably	 Imperishably.
Unperplex	 To free from perplexity.
Unpersuasion	 The state of not being persuaded
Unpervert	 To free from perversion
Unphilosophize	 To degrade from the character of a philosopher.
Unpick	 To pick out
Unpicked	 Picked out
Unpicked	 Not picked.
Unpin	 To loose from pins; to remove the pins from; to unfasten; as, to unpin a frock; to unpin a frame.
Unpinion	 To loose from pinions or manacles
Unpitied	 Not pitied.
Unpitied	 Pitiless
Unpitious	 Impious
Unpitious	 Destitute of pity
Unpitousty	 Impiety.
Unpity	 Want of piety.
Unplacable	 Implacable.
Unplaced	 Not placed.
Unplaid	 To deprive of a plaid.
Unplained	 Not deplored or bewailed
Unplat	 To take out the folds or twists of, as something previously platted; to unfold; to unwreathe.
Unplausive	 Not approving
Unpleaded	 Not used as a plea; not urged; as, an unpleaded excuse.
Unpleaded	 Not supported by pleas; undefended; as, an unpleaded suit.
Unpleasant	 Not pleasant
Unpleasantries	 of Unpleasantry
Unpleasantry	 Want of pleasantry.
Unpleasantry	 A state of disagreement
Unpleasive	 Unpleasant.
Unpleat	 To remove the plaits of
Unplight	 To unfold
Unplumb	 To deprive of lead, as of a leaden coffin.
Unplume	 To strip of plumes or feathers; hence, to humiliate.
Unpoised	 Not poised or balanced.
Unpoised	 Not poised or weighed; hence, regardless of consequences; unhesitating.
Unpoison	 To remove or expel poison from.
Unpolicied	 Not having civil polity, or a regular form of government.
Unpolicied	 Impolitic
Unpolish	 To deprive of polish
Unpolite	 Not polite
Unpolitic	 Impolitic
Unpolled	 Not polled.
Unpolled	 Not enumerated or registered; as, an unpolled vote or voter.
Unpolled	 Not plundered.
Unpope	 To divest of the character, office, or authority of a pope.
Unpope	 To deprive of a pope.
Unportunate	 Importunate
Unportuous	 Having no ports.
Unpossess	 To be without, or to resign, possession of.
Unpossibility	 Impossibility.
Unpossible	 Impossible.
Unpower	 Want of power
Unpowerful	 Not powerful
Unpracticable	 Impracticable
Unpractical	 Not practical
Unpraise	 To withhold praise from
Unpray	 To revoke or annul by prayer, as something previously prayed for.
Unprayable	 Not to be influenced or moved by prayers
Unprayed	 Not prayed for.
Unpreach	 To undo or overthrow by preaching.
Unprecedented	 Having no precedent or example
Unpredict	 To retract or falsify a previous prediction.
Unprejudiced	 Not prejudiced; free from undue bias or prepossession; not preoccupied by opinion; impartial; as, an unprejudiced mind; an unprejudiced judge.
Unprejudiced	 Not warped or biased by prejudice; as, an unprejudiced judgment.
Unprelated	 Deposed from the office of prelate.
Unprevented	 Not prevented or hindered; as, unprevented sorrows.
Unprevented	 Not preceded by anything.
Unpriced	 Not priced; being without a fixed or certain value; also, priceless.
Unpriest	 To deprive of priesthood
Unprince	 To deprive of the character or authority of a prince
Unprinciple	 To destroy the moral principles of.
Unprincipled	 Being without principles; especially, being without right moral principles; also, characterized by absence of principle.
Unprison	 To take or deliver from prison.
Unprizable	 Not prized or valued
Unprizable	 Invaluable
Unprobably	 Improbably.
Unprobably	 In a manner not to be approved of
Unproficiency	 Want of proficiency or improvement.
Unprofit	 Want of profit
Unprofited	 Profitless.
Unpromise	 To revoke or annul, as a promise.
Unprop	 To remove a prop or props from
Unproper	 Not proper or peculiar
Unproselyte	 To convert or recover from the state of a proselyte.
Unprotestantize	 To render other than Protestant
Unprovide	 To deprive of necessary provision
Unprovident	 Improvident.
Unprudence	 Imprudence.
Unprudent	 Imprudent.
Unprudential	 Imprudent.
Unpucker	 To smooth away the puckers or wrinkles of.
Unpure	 Not pure
Unpursed	 Robbed of a purse, or of money.
Unpursed	 Taken from the purse
Unqualify	 To disqualify
Unqualitied	 Deprived of the usual faculties.
Unqueen	 To divest of the rank or authority of queen.
Unquestionable	 Not questionable; as, an unquestionable title.
Unquestionable	 Not inviting questions or conversation.
Unquestioned	 Not called in question
Unquestioned	 Not interrogated
Unquestioned	 Indisputable
Unquick	 Not quick.
Unquiet	 To disquiet.
Unquiet	 Not quiet
Unquietude	 Uneasiness
Unravel	 To disentangle; to disengage or separate the threads of; as, to unravel a stocking.
Unravel	 Hence, to clear from complication or difficulty; to unfold; to solve; as, to unravel a plot.
Unravel	 To separate the connected or united parts of
Unravel	 To become unraveled, in any sense.
Unravelment	 The act of unraveling, or the state of being unraveled.
Unrazored	 Not shaven.
Unread	 Not read or perused; as, an unread book.
Unread	 Not versed in literature
Unreadiness	 The quality or state of being unready.
Unready	 Not ready or prepared
Unready	 Not dressed
Unready	 To undress.
Unreal	 Not real
Unreality	 The quality or state of being unreal
Unrealize	 To make unreal
Unreally	 In an unreal manner
Unreason	 Want of reason
Unreason	 To undo, disprove, or refute by reasoning.
Unreasonable	 Not reasonable
Unreasoned	 Not supported by reason
Unreave	 To unwind
Unreaved	 Not torn, split, or parted; not torn to pieces.
Unrebukable	 Not deserving rebuke or censure
Unrecuring	 Incurable.
Unredeemed	 Not redeemed.
Unreeve	 To withdraw, or take out, as a rope from a block, thimble, or the like.
Unreformation	 Want of reformation
Unregeneracy	 The quality or state of being unregenerate.
Unregenerate	 Alt. of Unregenerated
Unregenerated	 Not regenerated
Unregeneration	 Unregeneracy.
Unrein	 To loosen the reins of
Unrelenting	 Not relenting
Unreliable	 Not reliable
Unreligious	 Irreligious.
Unremembrance	 Want of remembrance
Unremitting	 Not remitting; incessant; continued; persevering; as, unremitting exertions.
Unremorseless	 Utterly remorseless.
Unrepentance	 Impenitence.
Unreproachable	 Not liable to be reproached
Unreprievable	 Not capable of being reprieved.
Unreproved	 Not reproved.
Unreproved	 Not having incurred reproof, blameless.
Unreputable	 Disreputable.
Unreserve	 Absence of reverse
Unreserved	 Not reserved
Unresistance	 Nonresistance
Unresisted	 Not resisted
Unresisted	 Resistless; as, unresisted fate.
Unresistible	 Irresistible.
Unrespect	 Disrespect.
Unresponsible	 Irresponsible.
Unrest	 Want of rest or repose
Unrestraint	 Freedom from restraint
Unresty	 Causing unrest; disquieting; as, unresty sorrows.
Unrevenued	 Not furnished with a revenue.
Unreverence	 Absence or lack of reverence
Unreverend	 Not reverend.
Unreverend	 Disrespectful
Unreverent	 Irreverent.
Unreverently	 Irreverently.
Unriddle	 To read the riddle of; to solve or explain; as, to unriddle an enigma or a mystery.
Unriddler	 One who unriddles.
Unrig	 To strip of rigging; as, to unrig a ship.
Unright	 Not right
Unright	 A wrong.
Unright	 To cause (something right) to become wrong.
Unrighteous	 Not righteous; evil; wicked; sinful; as, an unrighteous man.
Unrighteous	 Contrary to law and equity; unjust; as, an unrighteous decree or sentence.
Unrightwise	 Unrighteous.
Unringed	 Not having a ring, as in the nose.
Unrioted	 Free from rioting.
Unrip	 To rip
Unripe	 Not ripe; as, unripe fruit.
Unripe	 Developing too early
Unripeness	 Quality or state of being unripe.
Unrivaled	 Having no rival
Unrivet	 To take out, or loose, the rivets of; as, to unrivet boiler plates.
Unrobe	 To disrobe
Unroll	 To open, as what is rolled or convolved; as, to unroll cloth; to unroll a banner.
Unroll	 To display
Unroll	 To remove from a roll or register, as a name.
Un-Romanized	 Not subjected to Roman arms or customs.
Un-Romanized	 Not subjected to the principles or usages of the Roman Catholic Church.
Unroof	 To strip off the roof or covering of, as a house.
Unroofed	 Stripped of a roof, or similar covering.
Unroofed	 Not yet roofed.
Unroost	 To drive from the roost.
Unroot	 To tear up by the roots
Unroot	 To be torn up by the roots.
Unrude	 Not rude
Unrude	 Excessively rude.
Unruffle	 To cease from being ruffled or agitated.
Unruffled	 Not ruffled or agitated
Unruinate	 Alt. of Unruinated
Unruinated	 Not ruined or destroyed.
Unruled	 Not governed or controlled.
Unruled	 Not ruled or marked with lines; as, unruled paper.
Unruliment	 Unruliness.
Unruliness	 Quality or state unruly.
Unruly	 Not submissive to rule; disregarding restraint; disposed to violate; turbulent; ungovernable; refractory; as, an unruly boy; unruly boy; unruly conduct.
Unrumple	 To free from rumples; to spread or lay even,
Unsacrament	 To deprive of sacramental character or efficacy; as, to unsacrament the rite of baptism.
Unsad	 Unsteady
Unsadden	 To relieve from sadness
Unsaddle	 To strip of a saddle; to take the saddle from, as a horse.
Unsaddle	 To throw from the saddle
Unsadness	 Infirmity
Unsafety	 The quality or state of being in peril
Unsaint	 To deprive of saintship
Unsaintly	 Unbecoming to a saint.
Unsalable	 Not salable
Unsalable	 That which can not be sold.
Unsanctification	 Absence or lack of sanctification.
Unsatiability	 Quality of being unsatiable
Unsatiable	 Insatiable.
Unsatiate	 Insatiate.
Unsatisfaction	 Dissatisfaction.
Unsaturated	 Capable of absorbing or dissolving to a greater degree; as, an unsaturated solution.
Unsaturated	 Capable of taking up, or of uniting with, certain other elements or compounds, without the elimination of any side product; thus, aldehyde, ethylene, and ammonia are unsaturated.
Unsaturation	 The quality or state of being unsaturated.
Unsay	 To recant or recall, as what has been said; to refract; to take back again; to make as if not said.
Unscale	 To divest of scales
Unscapable	 Not be escaped
Unsceptered	 Alt. of Unsceptred
Unsceptred	 Having no scepter.
Unsceptred	 Deprived of a scepter.
Unscience	 Want of science or knowledge
Unscrew	 To draw the screws from; to loose from screws; to loosen or withdraw (anything, as a screw) by turning it.
Unscrupulous	 Not scrupulous
Unscrutable	 Inscrutable.
Unsoutcheoned	 Destitute of an escutcheon.
Unseal	 To break or remove the seal of; to open, as what is sealed; as, to unseal a letter.
Unseal	 To disclose, as a secret.
Unseam	 To open the seam or seams of
Unsearchable	 Not searchable
Unseason	 To make unseasoned
Unseason	 To strike unseasonably
Unseasonable	 Not seasonable; being, done, or occurring out of the proper season; ill-timed; untimely; too early or too late; as, he called at an unseasonable hour; unseasonable advice; unseasonable frosts; unseasonable food.
Unseasoned	 Not seasoned.
Unseasoned	 Untimely
Unseat	 To throw from one's seat
Unseat	 Specifically, to deprive of the right to sit in a legislative body, as for fraud in election.
Unseconded	 Not seconded; not supported, aided, or assisted; as, the motion was unseconded; the attempt was unseconded.
Unseconded	 Not exemplified a second time.
Unsecret	 To disclose
Unsecret	 Not secret
Unsecularize	 To cause to become not secular
Unsecure	 Insecure.
Unseel	 To open, as the eyes of a hawk that have been seeled; hence, to give light to; to enlighten.
Unseem	 Not to seem.
Unseeming	 Unbeseeming
Unseemliness	 The quality or state of being unseemly
Unseemly	 Not seemly
Unseemly	 In an unseemly manner.
Unseen	 Not seen or discovered.
Unseen	 Unskilled
Unseldom	 Not seldom
Unsely	 Not blessed or happy
Unseminared	 Deprived of virility, or seminal energy; made a eunuch.
Unsensed	 Wanting a distinct meaning
Unsensible	 Insensible.
Unsensualize	 To elevate from the domain of the senses
Unseparable	 Inseparable.
Unservice	 Neglect of duty
Unset	 Not set
Unsettle	 To move or loosen from a settled position or state
Unsettle	 To become unsettled or unfixed
Unsettledness	 The quality or state of being unsettled.
Unsettlement	 The act of unsettling, or state of being unsettled; disturbance.
Unseven	 To render other than seven
Unsew	 To undo, as something sewn, or something inclosed by sewing; to rip apart; to take out the stitches of.
Unsexed	 of Unsex
Unsexing	 of Unsex
Unsex	 To deprive of sex, or of qualities becoming to one's sex; esp., to make unfeminine in character, manners, duties, or the like; as, to unsex a woman.
Unsexual	 Not sexual
Unshackle	 To loose from shackles or bonds
Unshakable	 Not capable of being shaken
Unshaked	 Unshaken.
Unshale	 To strip the shale, or husk, from; to uncover.
Unshape	 To deprive of shape, or of proper shape; to disorder; to confound; to derange.
Unshaped	 Alt. of Unshapen
Unshapen	 Not shaped
Unsheathe	 To deprive of a sheath; to draw from the sheath or scabbard, as a sword.
Unshed	 Not parted or divided, as the hair.
Unshed	 Not spilt, or made to flow, as blood or tears.
Unshell	 To strip the shell from
Unshelve	 To remove from, or as from, a shelf.
Unshent	 Not shent
Unsheriff	 To depose from the office of sheriff.
Unshet	 To unshut.
Unshiftable	 That may /ot be shifted.
Unshiftable	 Shiftless
Unship	 To take out of a ship or vessel; as, to unship goods.
Unship	 To remove or detach, as any part or implement, from its proper position or connection when in use; as, to unship an oar; to unship capstan bars; to unship the tiller.
Unshipment	 The act of unshipping, or the state of being unshipped; displacement.
Unshot	 To remove the shot from, as from a shotted gun; to unload.
Unshot	 Not hit by a shot; also, not discharged or fired off.
Unshout	 To recall what is done by shouting.
Unshroud	 To remove the shroud from
Unshrubbed	 Being without shrubs.
Unshut	 To open, or throw open.
Unshutter	 To open or remove the shutters of.
Unsight	 Doing or done without sight
Unsightable	 Invisible.
Unsighted	 Not sighted, or seen.
Unsighted	 Not aimed by means of a sight; also, not furnished with a sight, or with a properly adjusted sight; as, to shoot and unsighted rife or cannon.
Unsignificant	 Insignificant.
Unsilly	 See Unsely.
Unsimplicity	 Absence of simplicity
Unsin	 To deprive of sinfulness, as a sin; to make sinless.
Unsincere	 Not sincere or pure
Unsincerity	 The quality or state of being unsincere or impure
Unsinew	 To deprive of sinews or of strength.
Unsister	 To separate, as sisters; to disjoin.
Unsisterly	 Not sisterly.
Unsisting	 Unresisting.
Unsitting	 Not sitting well
Unskill	 Want of skill
Unskillful	 Not skillful; inexperienced; awkward; bungling; as, an unskillful surgeon or mechanic; an unskillful logician.
Unskillful	 Lacking discernment
Unslacked	 Not slacked; unslaked; as, unslacked lime.
Unslaked	 Not slaked; unslacked; as, an unslaked thirst; unslaked lime.
Unsling	 To take off the slings of, as a yard, a cask, or the like; to release from the slings.
Unsluice	 To sluice
Unsociability	 The quality or state of being unsociable
Unsociable	 Not sociable; not inclined to society; averse to companionship or conversation; solitary; reserved; as, an unsociable person or temper.
Unsocket	 To loose or take from a socket.
Unsoft	 Not soft
Unsoft	 Not softly.
Unsolder	 To separate or disunite, as what has been soldered; hence, to divide; to sunder.
Unsoldiered	 Not equipped like a soldier
Unsolemnize	 To divest of solemnity.
Unsonable	 Incapable of being sounded.
Unsonsy	 Not soncy (sonsy)
Unsoot	 Not sweet.
Unsophisticate	 Alt. of Unsophisticated
Unsophisticated	 Not sophisticated
Unsorrowed	 Not sorrowed for
Unsorted	 Not sorted; not classified; as, a lot of unsorted goods.
Unsorted	 Not well selected
Unsoul	 To deprive of soul, spirit, or principle.
Unsound	 Not sound
Unspar	 To take the spars, stakes, or bars from.
Unsparing	 Not sparing
Unsparing	 Not merciful or forgiving.
Unspeak	 To retract, as what has been spoken; to recant; to unsay.
Unspeakable	 Not speakable; incapable of being uttered or adequately described; inexpressible; unutterable; ineffable; as, unspeakable grief or rage.
Unspecialized	 Not specialized; specifically (Biol.), not adapted, or set apart, for any particular purpose or function; as, an unspecialized unicellular organism.
Unsped	 Not performed
Unspell	 To break the power of (a spell)
Unsphere	 To remove, as a planet, from its sphere or orb.
Unspike	 To remove a spike from, as from the vent of a cannon.
Unspilt	 Not spilt or wasted
Unspin	 To untwist, as something spun.
Unspirit	 To dispirit.
Unspiritalize	 To deprive of spiritually.
Unspleened	 Deprived of a spleen.
Unspotted	 Not spotted; free from spot or stain; especially, free from moral stain; unblemished; immaculate; as, an unspotted reputation.
Unsquire	 To divest of the title or privilege of an esquire.
Unstable	 Not stable; not firm, fixed, or constant; subject to change or overthrow.
Unstack	 To remove, or take away, from a stack; to remove, as something constituting a stack.
Unstarch	 To free from starch
Unstate	 To deprive of state or dignity.
Unsteel	 To disarm
Unstep	 To remove, as a mast, from its step.
Unstick	 To release, as one thing stuck to another.
Unstill	 Not still
Unsting	 To disarm of a sting
Unstitch	 To open by picking out stitches; to take out, or undo, the stitches of; as, to unstitch a seam.
Unstock	 To deprive of a stock; to remove the stock from; to loose from that which fixes, or holds fast.
Unstock	 To remove from the stocks, as a ship.
Unstockinged	 Destitute of stockings.
Unstockinged	 Deprived of stockings.
Unstop	 To take the stopple or stopper from; as, to unstop a bottle or a cask.
Unstop	 To free from any obstruction
Unstrain	 To relieve from a strain
Unstrained	 Not strained; not cleared or purified by straining; as, unstrained oil or milk.
Unstrained	 Not forced; easy; natural; as, a unstrained deduction or inference.
Unstratified	 Not stratified; -- applied to massive rocks, as granite, porphyry, etc., and also to deposits of loose material, as the glacial till, which occur in masses without layers or strata.
Unstrength	 Want of strength
Unstriated	 Nonstriated
Unstring	 To deprive of a string or strings; also, to take from a string; as, to unstring beads.
Unstring	 To loosen the string or strings of; as, to unstring a harp or a bow.
Unstring	 To relax the tension of
Unstring	 Used also figuratively; as, his nerves were unstrung by fear.
Unstriped	 Not striped.
Unstriped	 Without marks or striations; nonstriated; as, unstriped muscle fibers.
Unstudied	 Not studied
Unstudied	 Not skilled
Unstudied	 Not spent in study.
Unsubstantial	 Lacking in matter or substance
Unsubstantialize	 To make unsubstantial.
Unsubstantiation	 A divesting of substantiality.
Unsucceedable	 Not able or likely to succeed.
Unsuccess	 Want of success
Unsuccessful	 Not successful; not producing the desired event; not fortunate; meeting with, or resulting in, failure; unlucky; unhappy.
Unsufferable	 Insufferable.
Unsuffering	 Inability or incapability of enduring, or of being endured.
Unsufficience	 Alt. of Unsufficiency
Unsufficiency	 Insufficiency.
Unsufficient	 Insufficient.
Unsuit	 Not to suit
Unsupportable	 Insupportable
Unsured	 Not made sure.
Unsurety	 Want of surety
Unsurmountable	 Insurmountable.
Unsuspicion	 The quality or state of being unsuspecting.
Unswaddle	 To take a swaddle from
Unswathe	 To take a swathe from
Unswayable	 Not capable of being swayed.
Unswear	 To recant or recall, as an oath; to recall after having sworn; to abjure.
Unswear	 To recall an oath.
Unsweat	 To relieve from perspiration
Unswell	 To sink from a swollen state
Unsymmetrical	 Wanting in symmetry, or due proportion pf parts.
Unsymmetrical	 Not symmetrical; being without symmetry, as the parts of a flower when similar parts are of different size and shape, or when the parts of successive circles differ in number. See Symmetry.
Unsymmetrical	 Being without symmetry of chemical structure or relation; as, an unsymmetrical carbon atom.
Unsymmetrically	 Not symmetrically.
Unsympathy	 Absence or lack of sympathy.
Untack	 To separate, as what is tacked; to disjoin; to release.
Untackle	 To unbitch
Untalked	 Not talked
Untangibility	 Intangibility.
Untangible	 Intangible.
Untangibly	 Intangibly.
Untangle	 To loose from tangles or intricacy; to disentangle; to resolve; as, to untangle thread.
Untappice	 to come out of concealment.
Untaste	 To deprive of a taste for a thing.
Unteach	 To cause to forget, or to lose from memory, or to disbelieve what has been taught.
Unteach	 To cause to be forgotten; as, to unteach what has been learned.
Unteam	 To unyoke a team from.
Untemper	 To deprive of temper, or of the proper degree of temper; to make soft.
Untemperate	 Intemperate.
Untemperately	 Intemperately.
Untempter	 One who does not tempt, or is not a tempter.
Untenant	 To remove a tenant from.
Untent	 To bring out of a tent.
Untented	 Having no tent or tents, as a soldier or a field.
Untented	 Not tended
Unthank	 No thanks
Unthink	 To recall or take back, as something thought.
Unthinker	 A person who does not think, or does not think wisely.
Unthinking	 Not thinking; not heedful; thoughtless; inconsiderate; as, unthinking youth.
Unthinking	 Not indicating thought or reflection
Unthread	 To draw or take out a thread from; as, to unthread a needle.
Unthread	 To deprive of ligaments
Unthread	 To make one's way through; to traverse; as, to unthread a devious path.
Untrift	 Want of thrift
Untrift	 An unthrifty.
Unthrift	 Unthrifty.
Unthriftfully	 Not thriftily.
Unthriftihead	 Alt. of Unthriftihood
Unthriftihood	 Untriftiness.
Unthriftily	 Not thriftily.
Unthriftily	 Improperly
Unthriftiness	 The quality or state or being unthrifty
Unthrifty	 Not thrifty
Unthrone	 To remove from, or as from, a throne; to dethrone.
Untidy	 Unseasonable
Untidy	 Not tidy or neat
Untie	 To loosen, as something interlaced or knotted; to disengage the parts of; as, to untie a knot.
Untie	 To free from fastening or from restraint
Untie	 To resolve
Untie	 To become untied or loosed.
Untighten	 To make less tight or tense
Until	 To
Until	 To; up to; till; before; -- used of time; as, he staid until evening; he will not come back until the end of the month.
Until	 As far as; to the place or degree that; especially, up to the time that; till. See Till, conj.
Untile	 To take the tiles from
Untime	 An unseasonable time.
Untimeliness	 Unseasonableness.
Untimely	 Not timely; done or happening at an unnatural, unusual, or improper time; unseasonable; premature; inopportune; as, untimely frosts; untimely remarks; an untimely death.
Untimely	 Out of the natural or usual time
Untimeous	 Untimely.
Untimeously	 Untimely
Untithed	 Not subjected tithes.
Untitled	 Not titled; having no title, or appellation of dignity or distinction.
Untitled	 Being without title or right
Unto	 To; -- now used only in antiquated, formal, or scriptural style. See To.
Unto	 Until
Unto	 Until
Untold	 Not told; not related; not revealed; as, untold secrets.
Untold	 Not numbered or counted; as, untold money.
Untolerable	 Intolerable.
Untomb	 To take from the tomb
Untongue	 To deprive of a tongue, or of voice.
Untooth	 To take out the teeth of.
Untoward	 Toward.
Untoward	 Froward
Untoward	 Awkward
Untoward	 Inconvenient; troublesome; vexatious; unlucky; unfortunate; as, an untoward wind or accident.
Untowardly	 Perverse
Untraded	 Not dealt with in trade
Untraded	 Unpracticed
Untraded	 Not traded in or bartered; hence, not hackneyed; unusual; not common.
Untrained	 Not trained.
Untrained	 Not trainable
Untrammeled	 Not hampered or impeded
Untraveled	 Not traveled; not trodden by passengers; as, an untraveled forest.
Untraveled	 Having never visited foreign countries; not having gained knowledge or experience by travel; as, an untraveled Englishman.
Untread	 To tread back
Untreasure	 To bring forth or give up, as things previously treasured.
Untreasured	 Deprived of treasure.
Untreasured	 Not treasured
Untreatable	 Incapable of being treated
Untrenched	 Being without trenches
Untressed	 Not tied up in tresses
Untrowable	 Incredible.
Untrue	 Not true; false; contrary to the fact; as, the story is untrue.
Untrue	 Not faithful
Untrue	 Untruly.
Untruism	 Something not true
Untrunked	 Separated from its trunk or stock.
Untruss	 To loose from a truss, or as from a truss; to untie or unfasten; to let out; to undress.
Untruss	 Alt. of Untrusser
Untrusser	 One who untrussed persons for the purpose of flogging them
Untrust	 Distrust.
Untrustful	 Not trustful or trusting.
Untrustful	 Not to be trusted
Untruth	 The quality of being untrue; contrariety to truth; want of veracity; also, treachery; faithlessness; disloyalty.
Untruth	 That which is untrue; a false assertion; a falsehood; a lie; also, an act of treachery or disloyalty.
Untruthful	 Not truthful
Untuck	 To unfold or undo, as a tuck; to release from a tuck or fold.
Untune	 To make incapable of harmony, or of harmonious action; to put out of tune.
Unturn	 To turn in a reserve way, especially so as to open something; as, to unturn a key.
Unturned	 Not turned
Untwain	 To rend in twain
Untwine	 To untwist; to separate, as that which is twined or twisted; to disentangle; to untie.
Untwine	 To become untwined.
Untwirl	 To untwist
Untwist	 To separate and open, as twisted threads; to turn back, as that which is twisted; to untwine.
Untwist	 To untie
Unty	 To untie.
Unusage	 Want or lack of usage.
Unused	 Not used; as, an unused book; an unused apartment.
Unused	 Not habituated
Unusual	 Not usual; uncommon; rare; as, an unusual season; a person of unusual grace or erudition.
Unusuality	 Unusualness.
Unutterable	 Not utterable; incapable of being spoken or voiced; inexpressible; ineffable; unspeakable; as, unutterable anguish.
Unvail	 See Unveil.
Unvaluable	 Invaluable
Unvaluable	 Not valuable
Unvalued	 Not valued; not appraised; hence, not considered; disregarded; valueless; as, an unvalued estate.
Unvalued	 Having inestimable value
Unvariable	 Invariable.
Unveil	 To remove a veil from; to divest of a veil; to uncover; to disclose to view; to reveal; as, she unveiled her face.
Unveil	 To remove a veil
Unveiler	 One who removes a veil.
Unveracity	 Want of veracity; untruthfulness; as, unveracity of heart.
Unvessel	 To cause to be no longer a vessel
Unvicar	 To deprive of the position or office a vicar.
Unviolable	 Inviolable.
Unvisard	 To take the vizard or mask from
Unvisible	 Invisible.
Unvisibly	 Invisibly.
Unvitiated	 Not vitiated
Unvoluntary	 Involuntary.
Unvote	 To reverse or annul by vote, as a former vote.
Unvoweled	 Having no vowel sounds or signs.
Unvulgarize	 To divest of vulgarity
Unvulnerable	 Invulnerable.
Unware	 Unaware
Unware	 Happening unexpectedly
Unwares	 Unawares
Unwarily	 In an unwary manner.
Unwariness	 The quality or state of being unwary
Unwarm	 To lose warmth
Unwarp	 To restore from a warped state
Unwarped	 Not warped; hence, not biased; impartial.
Unwarrantable	 Not warrantable
Unwarranted	 Not warranted; being without warrant, authority, or guaranty; unwarrantable.
Unwary	 Not vigilant against danger
Unwary	 Unexpected
Unwashed	 Not washed or cleansed
Unwashen	 Not washed.
Unwayed	 Not used to travel; as, colts that are unwayed.
Unwayed	 Having no ways or roads
Unwearied	 Not wearied; not fatigued or tired; hence, persistent; not tiring or wearying; indefatigable.
Unweary	 To cause to cease being weary
Unweave	 To unfold; to undo; to ravel, as what has been woven.
Unwedgeable	 Not to be split with wedges.
Unweeting	 Unwitting.
Unweighed	 Not weighed; not pondered or considered; as, an unweighed statement.
Unweighing	 Not weighing or pondering
Unweld	 Alt. of Unweldy
Unweldy	 Unwieldy
Unwell	 Not well
Unwell	 Specifically, ill from menstruation; affected with, or having, catamenial; menstruant.
Unwellness	 Quality or state of being unwell.
Unwemmed	 Not blemished
Unwhole	 Not whole
Unwieldy	 Not easily wielded or carried
Unwild	 To tame
Unwill	 To annul or reverse by an act of the will.
Unwilled	 Deprived of the faculty of will or volition.
Unwilling	 Not willing; loath; disinclined; reluctant; as, an unwilling servant.
Unwind	 To wind off; to loose or separate, as what or convolved; to untwist; to untwine; as, to unwind thread; to unwind a ball of yarn.
Unwind	 To disentangle.
Unwind	 To be or become unwound
Unwisdom	 Want of wisdom
Unwise	 Not wise; defective in wisdom; injudicious; indiscreet; foolish; as, an unwise man; unwise kings; unwise measures.
Unwisely	 In an unwise manner
Unwish	 To wish not to be
Unwist	 Not known
Unwist	 Not knowing
Unwit	 To deprive of wit.
Unwit	 Want of wit or understanding
Unwitch	 To free from a witch or witches
Unwitting	 Not knowing
Unwoman	 To deprive of the qualities of a woman
Unwonder	 To divest of the quality of wonder or mystery
Unwont	 Unwonted
Unwonted	 Not wonted; unaccustomed; unused; not made familiar by practice; as, a child unwonted to strangers.
Unwonted	 Uncommon; unusual; infrequent; rare; as, unwonted changes.
Unwork	 To undo or destroy, as work previously done.
Unworldly	 Not worldly
Unwormed	 Not wormed; not having had the worm, or lytta, under the tongue cut out; -- said of a dog.
Unworship	 To deprive of worship or due honor
Unworship	 Lack of worship or respect
Unworth	 Unworthy.
Unworth	 Unworthiness.
Unworthy	 Not worthy; wanting merit, value, or fitness; undeserving; worthless; unbecoming; -- often with of.
Unwrap	 To open or undo, as what is wrapped or folded.
Unwray	 See Unwrie.
Unwreathe	 To untwist, uncoil, or untwine, as anything wreathed.
Unwrie	 To uncover.
Unwrinkle	 To reduce from a wrinkled state
Unwrite	 To cancel, as what is written; to erase.
Unwritten	 Not written; not reduced to writing; oral; as, unwritten agreements.
Unwritten	 Containing no writing; blank; as, unwritten paper.
Unwroken	 Not revenged
Unyoke	 To loose or free from a yoke.
Unyoke	 To part
Unyoked	 Not yet yoked
Unyoked	 Freed or loosed from a yoke.
Unyoked	 Licentious
Unyolden	 Not yielded.
Unzoned	 Not zoned; not bound with a girdle; as, an unzoned bosom.
Up	 Aloft
Up	 From a lower to a higher position, literally or figuratively; as, from a recumbent or sitting position; from the mouth, toward the source, of a river; from a dependent or inferior condition; from concealment; from younger age; from a quiet state, or the like; -- used with verbs of motion expressed or implied.
Up	 In a higher place or position, literally or figuratively; in the state of having arisen; in an upright, or nearly upright, position; standing; mounted on a horse; in a condition of elevation, prominence, advance, proficiency, excitement, insurrection, or the like; -- used with verbs of rest, situation, condition, and the like; as, to be up on a hill; the lid of the box was up; prices are up.
Up	 To or in a position of equal advance or equality; not short of, back of, less advanced than, away from, or the like; -- usually followed by to or with; as, to be up to the chin in water; to come up with one's companions; to come up with the enemy; to live up to engagements.
Up	 To or in a state of completion; completely; wholly; quite; as, in the phrases to eat up; to drink up; to burn up; to sum up; etc.; to shut up the eyes or the mouth; to sew up a rent.
Up	 Aside, so as not to be in use; as, to lay up riches; put up your weapons.
Up	 From a lower to a higher place on, upon, or along; at a higher situation upon; at the top of.
Up	 From the coast towards the interior of, as a country; from the mouth towards the source of, as a stream; as, to journey up the country; to sail up the Hudson.
Up	 Upon.
Up	 The state of being up or above; a state of elevation, prosperity, or the like; -- rarely occurring except in the phrase ups and downs.
Up	 Inclining up; tending or going up; upward; as, an up look; an up grade; the up train.
Upas	 A tree (Antiaris toxicaria) of the Breadfruit family, common in the forests of Java and the neighboring islands. Its secretions are poisonous, and it has been fabulously reported that the atmosphere about it is deleterious. Called also bohun upas.
Upas	 A virulent poison used in Java and the adjacent islands for poisoning arrows. One kind, upas antiar, is, derived from upas tree (Antiaris toxicaria). Upas tieute is prepared from a climbing plant (Strychnos Tieute).
Upbar	 To fasten with a bar.
Upbar	 To remove the bar or bards of, as a gate; to under.
Upbear	 To bear up
Upbind	 To bind up.
Upblow	 To inflate.
Upblow	 To blow up; as, the wind upblows from the sea.
Upbraided	 of Upbraid
Upbraiding	 of Upbraid
Upbraid	 To charge with something wrong or disgraceful; to reproach; to cast something in the teeth of; -- followed by with or for, and formerly of, before the thing imputed.
Upbraid	 To reprove severely
Upbraid	 To treat with contempt.
Upbraid	 To object or urge as a matter of reproach
Upbraid	 To utter upbraidings.
Upbraid	 The act of reproaching
Upbreak	 To break upwards
Upbreak	 A breaking upward or bursting forth
Upbreathe	 To breathe up or out
Upbreed	 To rear, or bring up; to nurse.
Upbrought	 Brought up
Upbuoyance	 The act of buoying up
Upburst	 The act of bursting upwards; a breaking through to the surface; an upbreak or uprush; as, an upburst of molten matter.
Upcast	 Cast up; thrown upward; as, with upcast eyes.
Upcast	 A cast
Upcast	 The ventilating shaft of a mine out of which the air passes after having circulated through the mine; -- distinguished from the downcast. Called also upcast pit, and upcast shaft.
Upcast	 An upset, as from a carriage.
Upcast	 A taunt
Upcast	 To cast or throw up
Upcast	 To taunt
Upcaught	 Seized or caught up.
Upcheer	 To cheer up.
Upclimb	 To climb up
Upcoil	 To coil up; to make into a coil, or to be made into a coil.
Upcountry	 In an upcountry direction; as, to live upcountry.
Upcountry	 Living or situated remote from the seacoast; as, an upcountry residence.
Upcountry	 The interior of the country.
Upcurl	 To curl up.
Updive	 To spring upward
Updraw	 To draw up.
Upend	 To end up; to set on end, as a cask.
Upeygan	 The borele.
Upfill	 To fill up.
Upflow	 To flow or stream up.
Upflung	 Flung or thrown up.
Upgather	 To gather up
Upgaze	 To gaze upward.
Upgive	 To give up or out.
Upgrow	 To grow up.
Upgrowth	 The process or result of growing up
Upgush	 A gushing upward.
Upgush	 To gush upward.
Uphaf	 imp. of Upheave.
Uphand	 Lifted by the hand, or by both hands; as, the uphand sledge.
Uphang	 To hang up.
Uphasp	 To hasp or faster up; to close; as, sleep uphasps the eyes.
Upheaped	 Piled up
Upheaval	 The act of upheaving, or the state of being upheaved; esp., an elevation of a portion of the earth's crust.
Upheave	 To heave or lift up from beneath
Upheld	 imp. & p. p. of Uphold.
Upher	 A fir pole of from four to seven inches diameter, and twenty to forty feet long, sometimes roughly hewn, used for scaffoldings, and sometimes for slight and common roofs, for which use it is split.
Uphill	 Upwards on, or as on, a hillside; as, to walk uphill.
Uphill	 Ascending; going up; as, an uphill road.
Uphill	 Attended with labor; difficult; as, uphill work.
Uphilt	 To thrust in up to the hilt; as, to uphilt one's sword into an enemy.
Uphoard	 To hoard up.
Uphold	 To hold up
Uphold	 To keep erect
Uphold	 To aid by approval or encouragement; to countenance; as, to uphold a person in wrongdoing.
Upholder	 A broker or auctioneer
Upholder	 An undertaker, or provider for funerals.
Upholder	 An upholsterer.
Upholder	 One who, or that which, upholds; a supporter; a defender; a sustainer.
Upholster	 To furnish (rooms, carriages, bedsteads, chairs, etc.) with hangings, coverings, cushions, etc.; to adorn with furnishings in cloth, velvet, silk, etc.; as, to upholster a couch; to upholster a room with curtains.
Upholster	 A broker.
Upholster	 An upholsterer.
Upholsterer	 One who provides hangings, coverings, cushions, curtains, and the like; one who upholsters.
Upholstery	 The articles or goods supplied by upholsterers
Uphroe	 Same as Euphroe.
Upland	 High land; ground elevated above the meadows and intervals which lie on the banks of rivers, near the sea, or between hills; land which is generally dry; -- opposed to lowland, meadow, marsh, swamp, interval, and the like.
Upland	 The country, as distinguished from the neighborhood of towns.
Upland	 Of or pertaining to uplands; being on upland; high in situation; as, upland inhabitants; upland pasturage.
Upland	 Pertaining to the country, as distinguished from the neighborhood of towns; rustic; rude; unpolished.
Uplander	 One dwelling in the upland; hence, a countryman; a rustic.
Uplander	 The upland sandpiper.
Uplandish	 Of or pertaining to uplands
Uplandish	 Rude
Uplay	 To hoard.
Uplead	 To lead upward.
Uplean	 To lean or incline upon anything.
Uplifting	 of Uplift
Uplift	 To lift or raise aloft; to raise; to elevate; as, to uplift the arm; to uplift a rock.
Uplift	 A raising or upheaval of strata so as to disturb their regularity and uniformity, and to occasion folds, dislocations, and the like.
Up-line	 A line or track leading from the provinces toward the metropolis or a principal terminus
Uplock	 To lock up.
Uplook	 To look or gaze up.
Upmost	 Highest
Upokororo	 An edible fresh-water New Zealand fish (Prototroctes oxyrhynchus) of the family Haplochitonidae. In general appearance and habits, it resembles the northern lake whitefishes and trout. Called also grayling.
Upon	 On; -- used in all the senses of that word, with which it is interchangeable.
Uppent	 A Pent up
Upper	 Being further up, literally or figuratively; higher in place, position, rank, dignity, or the like; superior; as, the upper lip; the upper side of a thing; the upper house of a legislature.
Upper	 The upper leather for a shoe
Uppermost	 Highest in place, position, rank, power, or the like; upmost; supreme.
Uppertendom	 The highest class in society; the upper ten. See Upper ten, under Upper.
Uppile	 To pile, or heap, up.
Uppish	 Proud
Upplight	 imp. & p. p. of Uppluck.
Uppluck	 To pull or pluck up.
Uppricked	 Upraised
Upprop	 To prop up.
Upraise	 To raise
Uprear	 To raise
Upridged	 Raised up in a ridge or ridges; as, a billow upridged.
Upright	 In an erect position or posture; perpendicular; vertical, or nearly vertical; pointing upward; as, an upright tree.
Upright	 Morally erect; having rectitude; honest; just; as, a man upright in all his ways.
Upright	 Conformable to moral rectitude.
Upright	 Stretched out face upward
Upright	 Something standing upright, as a piece of timber in a building. See Illust. of Frame.
Uprighteously	 In an upright or just manner.
Uprightly	 In an upright manner.
Uprightness	 the quality or state of being upright.
Uprise	 To rise
Uprise	 To have an upward direction or inclination.
Uprise	 The act of rising
Uprising	 Act of rising; also, a steep place; an ascent.
Uprising	 An insurrection
Uprist	 Uprising.
Uprist	 imp. of Uprise. Uprose.
Uproar	 Great tumult
Uproar	 To throw into uproar or confusion.
Uproar	 To make an uproar.
Uproarious	 Making, or accompanied by, uproar, or noise and tumult; as, uproarious merriment.
Uproll	 To roll up.
Uproot	 To root up; to tear up by the roots, or as if by the roots; to remove utterly; to eradicate; to extirpate.
Uprouse	 To rouse up
Uprun	 To run up
Uprush	 To rush upward.
Uprush	 Act of rushing upward; an upbreak or upburst; as, an uprush of lava.
Upsarokas	 See Crows.
Upseek	 To seek or strain upward.
Upsend	 To send, cast, or throw up.
Upset	 To set up
Upset	 To thicken and shorten, as a heated piece of iron, by hammering on the end.
Upset	 To shorten (a tire) in the process of resetting, originally by cutting it and hammering on the ends.
Upset	 To overturn, overthrow, or overset; as, to upset a carriage; to upset an argument.
Upset	 To disturb the self-possession of; to disorder the nerves of; to make ill; as, the fright upset her.
Upset	 To become upset.
Upset	 Set up; fixed; determined; -- used chiefly or only in the phrase upset price; that is, the price fixed upon as the minimum for property offered in a public sale, or, in an auction, the price at which property is set up or started by the auctioneer, and the lowest price at which it will be sold.
Upset	 The act of upsetting, or the state of being upset; an overturn; as, the wagon had an upset.
Upsetting	 Conceited; assuming; as, an upsetting fellow.
Upshoot	 To shoot upward.
Upshot	 Final issue
Upside	 The upper side
Upsidown	 See Upsodown.
Upsitting	 A sitting up of a woman after her confinement, to receive and entertain her friends.
Upskip	 An upstart.
Upsnatch	 To snatch up.
Upsoar	 To soar or mount up.
Upsodown	 Upside down.
Upspear	 To grow or shoot up like a spear; as, upspearing grass.
Upspring	 To spring up.
Upspring	 An upstart.
Upspring	 A spring or leap into the air.
Upspurner	 A spurner or contemner
Upstairs	 Up the stairs
Upstairs	 Being above stairs; as, an upstairs room.
Upstand	 To stand up
Upstare	 To stare or stand upward; hence, to be uplifted or conspicuous.
Upstart	 To start or spring up suddenly.
Upstart	 One who has risen suddenly, as from low life to wealth, power, or honor; a parvenu.
Upstart	 The meadow saffron.
Upstart	 Suddenly raised to prominence or consequence.
Upstay	 To sustain
Upsterte	 imp. & p. p. of Upstart.
Upstir	 Insurrection
Upstream	 Toward the higher part of a stream
Upstreet	 Toward the higher part of a street; as, to walk upstreet.
Upstroke	 An upward stroke, especially the stroke, or line, made by a writing instrument when moving upward, or from the body of the writer, or a line corresponding to the part of a letter thus made.
Upsun	 The time during which the sun is up, or above the horizon; the time between sunrise and sunset.
Upswarm	 To rise, or cause to rise, in a swarm or swarms.
Upsway	 To sway or swing aloft; as, to upsway a club.
Upswell	 To swell or rise up.
Upsyturvy	 Upside down
Uptails	 all An old game at cards.
Uptails	 all Revelers
Uptails	 all Revelry
Uptake	 To take into the hand
Uptake	 The pipe leading upward from the smoke box of a steam boiler to the chimney, or smokestack; a flue leading upward.
Uptake	 Understanding
Uptear	 To tear up.
Upthrow	 To throw up.
Upthrow	 See Throw, n., 9.
Upthunder	 To send up a noise like thunder.
Uptie	 To tie up.
Uptill	 To
Uptown	 To or in the upper part of a town; as, to go uptown.
Uptown	 Situated in, or belonging to, the upper part of a town or city; as, a uptown street, shop, etc.; uptown society.
Uptrace	 To trace up or out.
Uptrain	 To train up
Up-train	 A train going in the direction of the metropolis or the main terminus.
Up-train	 A train going in the direction conventionally called up.
Upturn	 To turn up; to direct upward; to throw up; as, to upturn the ground in plowing.
Upupa	 A genus of birds which includes the common hoopoe.
Upwaft	 To waft upward.
Upward	 Alt. of Upwards
Upwards	 In a direction from lower to higher; toward a higher place; in a course toward the source or origin; -- opposed to downward; as, to tend or roll upward.
Upwards	 In the upper parts
Upwards	 Yet more
Upward	 Directed toward a higher place; as, with upward eye; with upward course.
Upward	 The upper part
Upwhirl	 To rise upward in a whirl
Upwind	 To wind up.
Upwreath	 To rise with a curling motion; to curl upward, as smoke.
Upyat	 imp. of Upgive.
Ur	 Alt. of Ure
Ure	 The urus.
Urachus	 A cord or band of fibrous tissue extending from the bladder to the umbilicus.
Uraemia	 Accumulation in the blood of the principles of the urine, producing dangerous disease.
Uraemic	 Of or pertaining to uraemia; as, uraemic convulsions.
Uraeum	 The posterior half of an animal.
Ural	 Pertaining to, or designating, the Urals, a mountain range between Europe and Asia.
Ural-Altaic	 Of or pertaining to the Urals and the Altai; as the Ural-Altaic, or Turanian, languages.
Urali	 See Curare.
Uralian	 Alt. of Uralic
Uralic	 Of or relating to the Ural Mountains.
Uralite	 Amphibole resulting from the alternation of pyroxene by paramorphism. It is not uncommon in massive eruptive rocks.
Uralitization	 The change of pyroxene to amphibole by paramorphism.
Uramil	 Murexan.
Uranate	 A salt of uranic acid.
Urania	 One of the nine Muses, daughter of Zeus by Mnemosyne, and patron of astronomy.
Urania	 A genus of large, brilliantly colored moths native of the West Indies and South America. Their bright colored and tailed hind wings and their diurnal flight cause them to closely resemble butterflies.
Uranian	 Of or pertaining to the planet Uranus; as, the Uranian year.
Uranic	 Of or pertaining to the heavens
Uranic	 Pertaining to, resembling, or containing uranium; specifically, designating those compounds in which uranium has a valence relatively higher than in uranous compounds.
Uranin	 An alkaline salt of fluorescein, obtained as a brownish red substance, which is used as a dye; -- so called from the peculiar yellowish green fluorescence (resembling that of uranium glass) of its solutions. See Fluorescein.
Uraninite	 A mineral consisting chiefly of uranium oxide with some lead, thorium, etc., occurring in black octahedrons, also in masses with a pitchlike luster; pitchblende.
Uraniscoplasty	 The process of forming an artificial palate.
Uraniscoraphy	 Alt. of Uraniscorrhaphy
Uraniscorrhaphy	 Suture of the palate. See Staphyloraphy.
Uranite	 A general term for the uranium phosphates, autunite, or lime uranite, and torbernite, or copper uranite.
Uranitic	 Of or pertaining to uranium
Uranium	 An element of the chromium group, found in certain rare minerals, as pitchblende, uranite, etc., and reduced as a heavy, hard, nickel-white metal which is quite permanent. Its yellow oxide is used to impart to glass a delicate greenish-yellow tint which is accompanied by a strong fluorescence, and its black oxide is used as a pigment in porcelain painting. Symbol U. Atomic weight 239.
Uran-ocher	 Alt. of Uran-ochre
Uran-ochre	 A yellow, earthy incrustation, consisting essentially of the oxide of uranium, but more or less impure.
Uranographic	 Alt. of Uranographical
Uranographical	 Of or pertaining to uranography; as, an uranographic treatise.
Uranographist	 One practiced in uranography.
Uranography	 A description or plan of the heavens and the heavenly bodies; the construction of celestial maps, globes, etc.; uranology.
Uranolite	 A meteorite or aerolite.
Uranology	 A discourse or treatise on the heavens and the heavenly bodies
Uranometria	 A uranometry.
Uranometry	 A chart or catalogue of fixed stars, especially of stars visible to the naked eye.
Uranoplasty	 The plastic operation for closing a fissure in the hard palate.
Uranoscopy	 Observation of the heavens or heavenly bodies.
Uranoso-	 A combining form (also used adjectively) from uranium; -- used in naming certain complex compounds; as in uranoso-uranic oxide, uranoso-uranic sulphate.
Uranous	 Pertaining to, or containing, uranium; designating those compounds in which uranium has a lower valence as contrasted with the uranic compounds.
Uranus	 The son or husband of Gaia (Earth), and father of Chronos (Time) and the Titans.
Uranus	 One of the primary planets. It is about 1,800,000,000 miles from the sun, about 36,000 miles in diameter, and its period of revolution round the sun is nearly 84 of our years.
Uran-utan	 The orang-utang
Uranyl	 The radical UO2, conveniently regarded as a residue of many uranium compounds.
Urao	 See Trona.
Urare	 Alt. of Urari
Urari	 See Curare.
Urate	 A salt of uric acid; as, sodium urate; ammonium urate.
Uratic	 Of or containing urates; as, uratic calculi.
Urban	 Of or belonging to a city or town; as, an urban population.
Urban	 Belonging to, or suiting, those living in a city; cultivated; polite; urbane; as, urban manners.
Urbane	 Courteous in manners
Urbaniste	 A large and delicious pear or Flemish origin.
Urbanity	 The quality or state of being urbane
Urbanity	 Polite wit
Urbanize	 To render urban, or urbane; to refine; to polish.
Urbicolae	 An extensive family of butterflies, including those known as skippers (Hesperiadae).
Urbicolous	 Of or pertaining to a city
Urceolar	 Urceolate.
Urcelate	 Shaped like a pitcher or urn; swelling below, and contrasted at the orifice, as a calyx or corolla.
Urceole	 A vessel for water for washing the hands; also, one to hold wine or water.
Urceoli	 of Urceolus
Urceolus	 Any urn-shaped organ of a plant.
Urchin	 A hedgehog.
Urchin	 A sea urchin. See Sea urchin.
Urchin	 A mischievous elf supposed sometimes to take the form a hedgehog.
Urchin	 A pert or roguish child
Urchin	 One of a pair in a series of small card cylinders, arranged around a carding drum; -- so called from its fancied resemblance to the hedgehog.
Urchin	 Rough
Urchon	 The urchin, or hedgehog.
Urdu	 The language more generally called Hindustanee.
Ure	 Use
Ure	 To use
Urea	 A very soluble crystalline body which is the chief constituent of the urine in mammals and some other animals. It is also present in small quantity in blood, serous fluids, lymph, the liver, etc.
Ureal	 Of or pertaining to urea; containing, or consisting of, urea; as, ureal deposits.
Ureameter	 An apparatus for the determination of the amount of urea in urine, in which the nitrogen evolved by the action of certain reagents, on a given volume of urine, is collected and measured, and the urea calculated accordingly.
Urechitin	 A glucoside extracted from the leaves of a certain plant (Urechitis suberecta) as a bitter white crystalline substance.
Urechitoxin	 A poisonous glucoside found accompanying urechitin, and extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance.
Uredo	 One of the stages in the life history of certain rusts (Uredinales), regarded at one time as a distinct genus. It is a summer stage preceding the teleutospore, or winter stage. See Uredinales, in the Supplement.
Uredo	 Nettle rash. See Urticaria.
Uredospore	 The thin-walled summer spore which is produced during the so-called Uredo stage of certain rusts. See (in the Supplement) Uredinales, Heter/cious, etc.
Ureide	 Any one of the many complex derivatives of urea; thus, hydantoin, and, in an extended dense, guanidine, caffeine, et., are ureides.
-uret	 A suffix with the same meaning as -ide. See -ide.
Ureter	 The duct which conveys the urine from the kidney to the bladder or cloaca. There are two ureters, one for each kidney.
Ureteritis	 Inflammation of the ureter.
Urethane	 A white crystalline substance, NH2.CO.OC2H5, produced by the action of ammonia on ethyl carbonate. It is used somewhat in medicine as a hypnotic. By extension, any one of the series of related substances of which urethane proper is the type.
Urethra	 The canal by which the urine is conducted from the bladder and discharged.
Urethral	 Of or pertaining to the urethra.
Urethritis	 Inflammation of the urethra.
Urethroplasty	 An operation for the repair of an injury or a defect in the walls of the urethra.
Urethroscope	 An instrument for viewing the interior of the urethra.
Urethroscopy	 Examination of the urethra by means of the urethroscope.
Urethrotome	 An instrument for cutting a urethral stricture.
Urethrotomy	 An incision of the urethra, esp. incision for relief of urethral stricture.
Uretic	 Of or pertaining to the urine; diuretic; urinary; as, uretic medicine.
Urged	 of Urge
Urging	 of Urge
Urge	 To press
Urge	 To press the mind or will of; to ply with motives, arguments, persuasion, or importunity.
Urge	 To provoke
Urge	 To press hard upon
Urge	 To present in an urgent manner; to press upon attention; to insist upon; as, to urge an argument; to urge the necessity of a case.
Urge	 To treat with forcible means; to take severe or violent measures with; as, to urge an ore with intense heat.
Urge	 To press onward or forward.
Urge	 To be pressing in argument
Urgence	 Urgency.
Urgency	 The quality or condition of being urgent; insistence; pressure; as, the urgency of a demand or an occasion.
Urgent	 Urging; pressing; besetting; plying, with importunity; calling for immediate attention; instantly important.
Urgently	 In an urgent manner.
Urger	 One who urges.
Uric	 Of or pertaining to urine; obtained from urine; as, uric acid.
Urim	 A part or decoration of the breastplate of the high priest among the ancient Jews, by which Jehovah revealed his will on certain occasions. Its nature has been the subject of conflicting conjectures.
Urinal	 A vessel for holding urine; especially, a bottle or tube for holding urine for inspection.
Urinal	 A place or convenience for urinating purposes.
Urinarium	 A reservoir for urine, etc., for manure.
Urinary	 Of or pertaining to the urine; as, the urinary bladder; urinary excretions.
Urinary	 Resembling, or being of the nature of, urine.
Urinary	 A urinarium; also, a urinal.
Urinate	 To discharge urine
Urination	 The act or process of voiding urine
Urinative	 Provoking the flow of urine
Urinator	 One who dives under water in search of something, as for pearls; a diver.
Urine	 In mammals, a fluid excretion from the kidneys; in birds and reptiles, a solid or semisolid excretion.
Urine	 To urinate.
Uriniferous	 Bearing or conveying urine; as, uriniferous tubules.
Uriniparous	 Producing or preparing urine; as, the uriniparous tubes in the cortical portion of the kidney.
Urinogenital	 Pertaining to the urinary and genital organs; genitourinary; urogenital; as, the urinogenital canal.
Urinometer	 A small hydrometer for determining the specific gravity of urine.
Urinometry	 The estimation of the specific gravity of urine by the urinometer.
Urinose	 Alt. of Urinous
Urinous	 Of or pertaining to urine, or partaking of its qualities; having the character or odor of urine; similar to urine.
Urite	 One of the segments of the abdomen or post-abdomen of arthropods.
Urith	 The bindings of a hedge.
Urn	 A vessel of various forms, usually a vase furnished with a foot or pedestal, employed for different purposes, as for holding liquids, for ornamental uses, for preserving the ashes of the dead after cremation, and anciently for holding lots to be drawn.
Urn	 Fig.: Any place of burial
Urn	 A measure of capacity for liquids, containing about three gallons and a haft, wine measure. It was haft the amphora, and four times the congius.
Urn	 A hollow body shaped like an urn, in which the spores of mosses are contained; a spore case; a theca.
Urn	 A tea urn. See under Tea.
Urn	 To inclose in, or as in, an urn; to inurn.
Urnal	 Of or pertaining to an urn
Urnfuls	 of Urnful
Urnful	 As much as an urn will hold
Urn-shaped	 Having the shape of an urn; as, the urn-shaped capsules of some mosses.
Uro-	 A combining form fr. Gr. o'y^ron, urine.
Uro-	 A combining form from Gr. o'yra`, the tail, the caudal extremity.
Urobilin	 A yellow pigment identical with hydrobilirubin, abundant in the highly colored urine of fever, and also present in normal urine. See Urochrome.
Urocele	 A morbid swelling of the scrotum due to extravasation of urine into it.
Urocerata	 A division of boring Hymenoptera, including Tremex and allied genera. See Illust. of Horntail.
Urochord	 The central axis or cord in the tail of larval ascidians and of certain adult tunicates.
Urochorda	 Same as Tunicata.
Urochordal	 Of or pertaining to the Urochorda.
Urochrome	 A yellow urinary pigment, considered by Thudichum as the only pigment present in normal urine. It is regarded by Maly as identical with urobilin.
Urochs	 See Aurochs.
Urocord	 See Urochord.
Urocyst	 The urinary bladder.
Urodela	 An order of amphibians having the tail well developed and often long. It comprises the salamanders, tritons, and allied animals.
Urodele	 One of the Urodela.
Urodelian	 Of or pertaining to the Urodela.
Urodelian	 One of the Urodela.
Uroerythrin	 A reddish urinary pigment, considered as the substance which gives to the urine of rheumatism its characteristic color. It also causes the red color often seen in deposits of urates.
Urogastric	 Behind the stomach
Urogenital	 Same as Urinogenital.
Uroglaucin	 A body identical with indigo blue, occasionally found in the urine in degeneration of the kidneys. It is readily formed by oxidation or decomposition of indican.
Urohaematin	 Urinary haematin; -- applied to the normal coloring matter of the urine, on the supposition that it is formed either directly or indirectly (through bilirubin) from the haematin of the blood. See Urochrome, and Urobilin.
Urohyal	 Of or pertaining to one or more median and posterior elements in the hyoidean arch of fishes.
Urohyal	 A urohyal bone or cartilage.
Urology	 See Uronology.
Uromere	 Any one of the abdominal segments of an arthropod.
Uronology	 That part of medicine which treats of urine.
Uropod	 Any one of the abdominal appendages of a crustacean, especially one of the posterior ones, which are often larger than the rest, and different in structure, and are used chiefly in locomotion. See Illust. of Crustacea, and Stomapoda.
Uropodal	 Of or pertaining to a uropod.
Uropoetic	 Producing, or favoring the production of, urine.
Uropoetic	 Of, pertaining to, or designating, a system of organs which eliminate nitrogenous waste matter from the blood of certain invertebrates.
Uropygial	 Of or pertaining to the uropygium, or prominence at the base of the tail feathers, in birds.
Uropygium	 The prominence at the posterior extremity of a bird's body, which supports the feathers of the tail; the rump; -- sometimes called pope's nose.
Urosacral	 Of or pertaining to both the caudal and sacral parts of the vertebral column; as, the urosacral vertebrae of birds.
Uroscopy	 The diagnosis of diseases by inspection of urine.
Urosome	 The abdomen, or post-abdomen, of arthropods.
Urostege	 One of the plates on the under side of the tail of a serpent.
Urostea	 of Urosteon
Urosteons	 of Urosteon
Urosteon	 A median ossification back of the lophosteon in the sternum of some birds.
Urosternite	 The sternal, or under piece, of any one of the uromeres of insects and other arthropods.
Urostyle	 A styliform process forming the posterior extremity of the vertebral column in some fishes and amphibians.
Urox	 The aurochs.
Uroxanate	 A salt of uroxanic acid.
Uroxanic	 Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C5H8N4O6, which is obtained, as a white crystalline substance, by the slow oxidation of uric acid in alkaline solution.
Uroxanthin	 Same as Indican.
Urrhodin	 Indigo red, a product of the decomposition, or oxidation, of indican. It is sometimes found in the sediment of pathological urines. It is soluble in ether or alcohol, giving the solution a beautiful red color. Also called indigrubin.
Urry	 A sort of blue or black clay lying near a vein of coal.
Ursa	 Either one of the Bears. See the Phrases below.
Ursal	 The ursine seal. See the Note under 1st Seal.
Ursiform	 Having the shape of a bear.
Ursine	 Of or pertaining to a bear
Urson	 The Canada porcupine. See Porcupine.
Ursuk	 The bearded seal.
Ursula	 A beautiful North American butterfly (Basilarchia, / Limenitis, astyanax). Its wings are nearly black with red and blue spots and blotches. Called also red-spotted purple.
Ursuline	 One of an order of nuns founded by St. Angela Merici, at Brescia, in Italy, about the year 1537, and so called from St. Ursula, under whose protection it was placed. The order was introduced into Canada as early as 1639, and into the United States in 1727. The members are devoted entirely to education.
Ursuline	 Of or pertaining to St. Ursula, or the order of Ursulines; as, the Ursuline nuns.
Ursus	 A genus of Carnivora including the common bears.
Urtica	 A genus of plants including the common nettles. See Nettle, n.
Urticaceous	 Of or pertaining to a natural order (Urticaceae) of plants, of which the nettle is the type. The order includes also the hop, the elm, the mulberry, the fig, and many other plants.
Urtical	 Resembling nettles
Urticaria	 The nettle rash, a disease characterized by a transient eruption of red pimples and of wheals, accompanied with a burning or stinging sensation and with itching; uredo.
Urticated	 of Urticate
Urticating	 of Urticate
Urticate	 To sting with, or as with, nettles; to irritate; to annoy.
Urtication	 The act or process of whipping or stinging with nettles
Urubu	 The black vulture (Catharista atrata). It ranges from the Southern United States to South America. See Vulture.
Urus	 A very large, powerful, and savage extinct bovine animal (Bos urus / primigenius) anciently abundant in Europe. It appears to have still existed in the time of Julius Caesar. It had very large horns, and was hardly capable of domestication. Called also, ur, ure, and tur.
Urva	 The crab-eating ichneumon (Herpestes urva), native of India. The fur is black, annulated with white at the tip of each hair, and a white streak extends from the mouth to the shoulder.
Us	 The persons speaking, regarded as an object; ourselves; -- the objective case of we. See We.
Usable	 Capable of being used.
Usage	 The act of using; mode of using or treating; treatment; conduct with respect to a person or a thing; as, good usage; ill usage; hard usage.
Usage	 Manners
Usage	 Long-continued practice
Usage	 Customary use or employment, as of a word or phrase in a particular sense or signification.
Usage	 Experience.
Usager	 One who has the use of anything in trust for another.
Usance	 Use
Usance	 Custom
Usance	 Interest paid for money
Usance	 The time, fixed variously by the usage between different countries, when a bill of exchange is payable; as, a bill drawn on London at one usance, or at double usance.
Usant	 Using
Usbegs	 Alt. of Usbeks
Usbeks	 A Turkish tribe which about the close of the 15th century conquered, and settled in, that part of Asia now called Turkestan.
Use	 The act of employing anything, or of applying it to one's service; the state of being so employed or applied; application; employment; conversion to some purpose; as, the use of a pen in writing; his machines are in general use.
Use	 Occasion or need to employ; necessity; as, to have no further use for a book.
Use	 Yielding of service
Use	 Continued or repeated practice
Use	 Common occurrence
Use	 The special form of ritual adopted for use in any diocese; as, the Sarum, or Canterbury, use; the Hereford use; the York use; the Roman use; etc.
Use	 The premium paid for the possession and employment of borrowed money
Use	 The benefit or profit of lands and tenements. Use imports a trust and confidence reposed in a man for the holding of lands. He to whose use or benefit the trust is intended shall enjoy the profits. An estate is granted and limited to A for the use of B.
Use	 A stab of iron welded to the side of a forging, as a shaft, near the end, and afterward drawn down, by hammering, so as to lengthen the forging.
Used	 of Use
Using	 of Use
Use	 To make use of; to convert to one's service; to avail one's self of; to employ; to put a purpose; as, to use a plow; to use a chair; to use time; to use flour for food; to use water for irrigation.
Use	 To behave toward; to act with regard to; to treat; as, to use a beast cruelly.
Use	 To practice customarily; to make a practice of; as, to use diligence in business.
Use	 To accustom; to habituate; to render familiar by practice; to inure; -- employed chiefly in the passive participle; as, men used to cold and hunger; soldiers used to hardships and danger.
Use	 To be wont or accustomed; to be in the habit or practice; as, he used to ride daily; -- now disused in the present tense, perhaps because of the similarity in sound, between "use to," and "used to."
Use	 To be accustomed to go
Useful	 Full of use, advantage, or profit; producing, or having power to produce, good; serviceable for any end or object; helpful toward advancing any purpose; beneficial; profitable; advantageous; as, vessels and instruments useful in a family; books useful for improvement; useful knowledge; useful arts.
Usefully	 In a useful manner.
Usefulness	 The quality or state of being useful
Useless	 Having, or being of, no use; unserviceable; producing no good end; answering no valuable purpose; not advancing the end proposed; unprofitable; ineffectual; as, a useless garment; useless pity.
User	 One who uses.
User	 Enjoyment of property
Usher	 An officer or servant who has the care of the door of a court, hall, chamber, or the like; hence, an officer whose business it is to introduce strangers, or to walk before a person of rank. Also, one who escorts persons to seats in a church, theater, etc.
Usher	 An under teacher, or assistant master, in a school.
Ushered	 of Usher
Ushering	 of Usher
Usher	 To introduce or escort, as an usher, forerunner, or harbinger; to forerun; -- sometimes followed by in or forth; as, to usher in a stranger; to usher forth the guests; to usher a visitor into the room.
Usherance	 The act of ushering, or the state of being ushered in.
Usherdom	 The office or position of an usher; ushership; also, ushers, collectively.
Usherless	 Destitute of an usher.
Ushership	 The office of an usher
Usitative	 Denoting usual or customary action.
Usnea	 A genus of lichens, most of the species of which have long, gray, pendulous, and finely branched fronds. Usnea barbata is the common bearded lichen which grows on branches of trees in northern forests.
Usnic	 Pertaining to, or designating, a complex acid obtained, as a yellow crystalline substance, from certain genera of lichens (Usnea, Parmelia, etc.).
Usquebaugh	 A compound distilled spirit made in Ireland and Scotland
Usquebaugh	 A liquor compounded of brandy, or other strong spirit, raisins, cinnamon and other spices.
Usself	 Ourselves.
Ustion	 The act of burning, or the state of being burned.
Ustorious	 Having the quality of burning.
Ustulate	 Blackened as if burned.
Ustulation	 The act of burning or searing.
Ustulation	 The operation of expelling one substance from another by heat, as sulphur or arsenic from ores, in a muffle.
Ustulation	 The roasting or drying of moist substances so as prepare them for pulverizing.
Ustulation	 The burning of wine.
Ustulation	 Lascivious passion
Usual	 Such as is in common use; such as occurs in ordinary practice, or in the ordinary course of events; customary; ordinary; habitual; common.
Usucaption	 The acquisition of the title or right to property by the uninterrupted possession of it for a certain term prescribed by law
Usufruct	 The right of using and enjoying the profits of an estate or other thing belonging to another, without impairing the substance.
Usufructuary	 A person who has the use of property and reaps the profits of it.
Usufructuary	 Of or pertaining to a usufruct
Usurarious	 Alt. of Usurary
Usurary	 Usurious.
Usured	 of Usure
Usuring	 of Usure
Usure	 To practice usury
Usure	 Usury.
Usurer	 One who lends money and takes interest for it
Usurer	 One who lends money at a rate of interest beyond that established by law
Usurious	 Practicing usury; taking illegal or exorbitant interest for the use of money; as, a usurious person.
Usurious	 Partaking of usury; containing or involving usury; as, a usurious contract.
Usurped	 of Usurp
Usurping	 of Usurp
Usurp	 To seize, and hold in possession, by force, or without right; as, to usurp a throne; to usurp the prerogatives of the crown; to usurp power; to usurp the right of a patron is to oust or dispossess him.
Usurp	 To commit forcible seizure of place, power, functions, or the like, without right; to commit unjust encroachments; to be, or act as, a usurper.
Usurpant	 Usurping
Usurpation	 The act of usurping, or of seizing and enjoying; an authorized, arbitrary assumption and exercise of power, especially an infringing on the rights of others; specifically, the illegal seizure of sovereign power; -- commonly used with of, also used with on or upon; as, the usurpation of a throne; the usurpation of the supreme power.
Usurpation	 Use
Usurpatory	 Marked by usurpation
Usurpature	 Usurpation.
Usurper	 One who usurps; especially, one who seizes illegally on sovereign power; as, the usurper of a throne, of power, or of the rights of a patron.
Usurpingly	 In a usurping manner.
Usury	 A premium or increase paid, or stipulated to be paid, for a loan, as of money; interest.
Usury	 The practice of taking interest.
Usury	 Interest in excess of a legal rate charged to a borrower for the use of money.
Ut	 The first note in Guido's musical scale, now usually superseded by do. See Solmization.
Utas	 The eighth day after any term or feast; the octave; as, the utas of St. Michael.
Utas	 Hence, festivity; merriment.
Utensil	 That which is used; an instrument; an implement; especially, an instrument or vessel used in a kitchen, or in domestic and farming business.
Uterine	 Of or instrument to the uterus, or womb.
Uterine	 Born of the same mother, but by a different father.
Uterogestation	 Gestation in the womb from conception to birth
Uterovaginal	 Pertaining to both the uterus and the vagina.
Uterus	 The organ of a female mammal in which the young are developed previous to birth
Uterus	 A receptacle, or pouch, connected with the oviducts of many invertebrates in which the eggs are retained until they hatch or until the embryos develop more or less. See Illust. of Hermaphrodite in Append.
Utes	 An extensive tribe of North American Indians of the Shoshone stock, inhabiting Colorado, Utah, New Mexico, Arizona, and adjacent regions. They are subdivided into several subordinate tribes, some of which are among the most degraded of North American Indians.
Utia	 Any species of large West Indian rodents of the genus Capromys, or Utia. In general appearance and habits they resemble rats, but they are as large as rabbits.
Utica	 Of, pertaining to, or designating, a subdivision of the Trenton Period of the Lower Silurian, characterized in the State of New York by beds of shale.
Utile	 Profitable
Utilitarian	 Of or pertaining to utility; consisting in utility; /iming at utility as distinguished from beauty, ornament, etc.; sometimes, reproachfully, evincing, or characterized by, a regard for utility of a lower kind, or marked by a sordid spirit; as, utilitarian narrowness; a utilitarian indifference to art.
Utilitarian	 Of or pertaining to utilitarianism; supporting utilitarianism; as, the utilitarian view of morality; the Utilitarian Society.
Utilitarian	 One who holds the doctrine of utilitarianism.
Utilitarianism	 The doctrine that the greatest happiness of the greatest number should be the end and aim of all social and political institutions.
Utilitarianism	 The doctrine that virtue is founded in utility, or that virtue is defined and enforced by its tendency to promote the highest happiness of the universe.
Utilitarianism	 The doctrine that utility is the sole standard of morality, so that the rectitude of an action is determined by its usefulness.
Utility	 The quality or state of being useful; usefulness; production of good; profitableness to some valuable end; as, the utility of manure upon land; the utility of the sciences; the utility of medicines.
Utility	 Adaptation to satisfy the desires or wants; intrinsic value. See Note under Value, 2.
Utility	 Happiness; the greatest good, or happiness, of the greatest number, -- the foundation of utilitarianism.
Utilizable	 Capable of being utilized; as, the utilizable products of the gas works.
Utilization	 The act of utilizing, or the state of being utilized.
Utilized	 of Utilize
Utilizing	 of Utilize
Utilize	 To make useful; to turn to profitable account or use; to make use of; as, to utilize the whole power of a machine; to utilize one's opportunities.
Uti	 possidetis The basis or principle of a treaty which leaves belligerents mutually in possession of what they have acquired by their arms during the war.
Uti	 possidetis A species of interdict granted to one who was in possession of an immovable thing, in order that he might be declared the legal possessor.
Utis	 See Utas.
Utlary	 Outlawry.
Utmost	 Situated at the farthest point or extremity; farthest out; most distant; extreme; as, the utmost limits of the land; the utmost extent of human knowledge.
Utmost	 Being in the greatest or highest degree, quantity, number, or the like; greatest; as, the utmost assiduity; the utmost harmony; the utmost misery or happiness.
Utmost	 The most that can be; the farthest limit; the greatest power, degree, or effort; as, he has done his utmost; try your utmost.
Utopia	 An imaginary island, represented by Sir Thomas More, in a work called Utopia, as enjoying the greatest perfection in politics, laws, and the like. See Utopia, in the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction.
Utopia	 Hence, any place or state of ideal perfection.
Utopian	 Of or pertaining to Utopia; resembling Utopia; hence, ideal; chimerical; fanciful; founded upon, or involving, imaginary perfections; as, Utopian projects; Utopian happiness.
Utopian	 An inhabitant of Utopia; hence, one who believes in the perfectibility of human society; a visionary; an idealist; an optimist.
Utopianism	 The ideas, views, aims, etc., of a Utopian; impracticable schemes of human perfection; optimism.
Utopianist	 An Utopian
Utopical	 Utopian
Utopist	 A Utopian.
Utraquist	 One who receives the eucharist in both kinds; esp., one of a body of Hussites who in the 15th century fought for the right to do this. Called also Calixtines.
Utricle	 A little sac or vesicle, as the air cell of fucus, or seaweed.
Utricle	 A microscopic cell in the structure of an egg, animal, or plant.
Utricle	 A small, thin-walled, one-seeded fruit, as of goosefoot.
Utricle	 A utriculus.
Utricular	 Of or pertaining to a utricle, or utriculus; containing, or furnished with, a utricle or utricles; utriculate; as, a utricular plant.
Utricular	 Resembling a utricle or bag, whether large or minute; -- said especially with reference to the condition of certain substances, as sulphur, selenium, etc., when condensed from the vaporous state and deposited upon cold bodies, in which case they assume the form of small globules filled with liquid.
Utricularia	 A genus of aquatic flowering plants, in which the submersed leaves bear many little utricles, or ascidia. See Ascidium,
Utriculate	 Resembling a bladder
Utriculoid	 Resembling a bladder
Utriculus	 A little sac, or bag; a utricle; especially, a part of the membranous labyrinth of the ear. See the Note under Ear.
Utro	 - (/). A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the uterus; as in utro-ovarian.
Utter	 Outer.
Utter	 Situated on the outside, or extreme limit; remote from the center; outer.
Utter	 Complete; perfect; total; entire; absolute; as, utter ruin; utter darkness.
Utter	 Peremptory; unconditional; unqualified; final; as, an utter refusal or denial.
Uttered	 of Utter
Uttering	 of Utter
Utter	 To put forth or out
Utter	 To dispose of in trade
Utter	 hence, to put in circulation, as money; to put off, as currency; to cause to pass in trade; -- often used, specifically, of the issue of counterfeit notes or coins, forged or fraudulent documents, and the like; as, to utter coin or bank notes.
Utter	 To give public expression to
Utterable	 Capable of being uttered.
Utterance	 The act of uttering.
Utterance	 Sale by offering to the public.
Utterance	 Putting in circulation; as, the utterance of false coin, or of forged notes.
Utterance	 Vocal expression
Utterance	 Power or style of speaking; as, a good utterance.
Utterance	 The last extremity
Utterer	 One who utters.
Utterest	 Uttermost.
Utterless	 Incapable of being uttered.
Utterly	 In an utter manner; to the full extent; fully; totally; as, utterly ruined; it is utterly vain.
Uttermore	 Further
Uttermost	 Extreme; utmost; being; in the farthest, greatest, or highest degree; as, the uttermost extent or end.
Uttermost	 The utmost
Utterness	 The quality or state of being utter, or extreme; extremity; utmost; uttermost.
Uva	 A small pulpy or juicy fruit containing several seeds and having a thin skin, as a grape.
Uvate	 A conserve made of grapes.
Uva-ursi	 The bearberry.
Uvea	 The posterior pigmented layer of the iris
Uveous	 Resembling a grape.
Uvic	 Pertaining to, or obtained from, grapes; specifically, designating an organic acid, C7H8O3 (also called pyrotritartaric acid), obtained as a white crystalline substance by the decomposition of tartaric and pyrotartaric acids.
Uvitic	 Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, CH3C6H3(CO2H)2, obtained as a white crystalline substance by the partial oxidation of mesitylene; -- called also mesitic acid.
Uvitonic	 Pertaining to, or designating, an acid which is obtained as a white crystalline substance by the action of ammonia on pyrotartaric acid.
Uvrou	 See Euphroe.
Uvula	 The pendent fleshy lobe in the middle of the posterior border of the soft palate.
Uvular	 Of or pertaining to a uvula.
Uvulatome	 An instrument for removing the uvula.
Uvulatomy	 The operation of removing the uvula.
Uwarowite	 Ouvarovite.
Uxorial	 Dotingly fond of, or servilely submissive to, a wife; uxorious; also, becoming a wife; pertaining to a wife.
Uxoricidal	 Of or pertaining to uxoricide
Uxoricide	 The murder of a wife by her husband.
Uxoricide	 One who murders his wife.
Uxorious	 Excessively fond of, or submissive to, a wife; being a dependent husband.
Uzema	 A Burman measure of twelve miles.
